Bhagat Singh was a charismatic Indian socialist revolutionary whose two acts of dramatic violence against the British in India and execution at age 23 made him a folk hero of the Indian independence movement.

Born in 1907 in Punjab to a Sikh family that had earlier been involved in revolutionary activities against the British Raj, Singh was influenced by his family's anti-British stance. As a teenager, he studied European revolutionary movements and was attracted to anarchist and Marxist ideologies. He became involved in numerous revolutionary organizations and quickly rose through the ranks of the Hindustan Republican Association (HRA) to become one of its main leaders, eventually changing its name to the Hindustan Socialist Republican Association (HSRA) in 1928.

In December 1928, Bhagat Singh and an associate, Shivaram Rajguru, fatally shot a 21-year-old British police officer, John Saunders, in Lahore. They mistook Saunders for the British police superintendent, James A. Scott, whom they had intended to assassinate to avenge the death of Lala Lajpat Rai.

In April 1929, Singh and Batukeshwar Dutt threw two homemade bombs inside the Central Legislative Assembly in Delhi. They showered leaflets from the gallery and shouted slogans, and then allowed the authorities to arrest them. The leaflets claimed that the act was not intended to kill but to "make the deaf hear."

Bhagat Singh was a voracious reader. His philosophical journey led him to atheism, which he eloquently defended in his famous essay "Why I am an Atheist," written in jail in 1930. He believed that blind faith and religious superstition were obstacles to human progress and revolutionary action.

He emphasized the need for a revolution of the masses, not just a change of masters. He famously said, "By 'Revolution' we mean the ultimate establishment of an order of society which may not be threatened by such breakdown, and in which the sovereignty of the proletariat should be recognized and a world federation should redeem humanity from the bondage of capitalism and misery of imperial wars."

Notable Quotes:
"They may kill me, but they cannot kill my ideas. They can crush my body, but they will not be able to crush my spirit."
"Merciless criticism and independent thinking are the two necessary traits of revolutionary thinking."
"I am a man and all that affects mankind concerns me."
"Philosophy is the outcome of human weakness or limitation of knowledge."
"Life is lived on its own... other's shoulders are used only at the time of funeral."
"Love always elevates the character of man. It never lowers him, provided love be love."
