the world that is authentic and grounded and true. But do we even know
what this “self” is?
In this volume, Osho tackles our notions of who we are, and what the “self”
really is, by examining what it is not . The examination begins in an
unexpected way, with an unflinching look at the most powerful source of all
our notions of what “selfhood” is—our religious teachings. For most of us,
from the time we are old enough to walk, these religious and moral
teachings are used to shape and define our behavior as humans in a world of
other human beings. And as long as we carry the burdens of these imposed
beliefs and superstitions, Osho says, we can’t even begin to undertake an
honest search for who we really are. As long as we don’t know who we are,
any self-respect that we might enjoy stands on shaky ground, ready to
topple the moment any of our cherished beliefs is challenged.
In his responses to questions from his audience, Osho sheds light on just
how much of our experience of everyday life is shaped by religious and
social conditioning—and we are not even aware of the fact. In every
dimension, he argues, we are constantly being pulled away from the unique
nature that each of us is born with. In place of that original and unique self,
a false self called the “ego” or personality is constructed. That false self
eventually gains control of our creativity, our ideas about what it means to
be successful, our relationships, and our very experience of who we are. At
the same time, the collection of egos known as “society” shapes all of our
political, educational and religious institutions, which in turn do their part to
reinforce the same old patterns onto new generations of innocent human
beings.
Discarding the old trinities we all know from the past, Osho introduces the
reader to a new trinity—of watchfulness, awareness, alertness. This new
trinity is the key to rediscovering our unique nature, the real “self” that lies
within us all. And once that discovery is made, whatever falseness we have
carried up till now simple falls away of its own accord.
This series of talks takes place in the extraordinary context of a community
of meditators, living and working together as part of an experiment to bring
meditation to the center of everyday life. As such, it also points the way
toward a new way of authentic living that balances the individual need for

self expression and creativity, and the need for the whole to function in
harmony.
—The editors
Note: The printed edition of this book features a live recording of one of the
talks on DVD, which offers a firsthand experience of a contemporary
mystic at work.
Chapter 1
Innocence is Power
Is the hypothesis of God not useful in any way?—because the very thought
of dropping the idea of God makes me feel immensely afraid.
It is already too late! The moment one starts calling the idea of God a
hypothesis, the idea of God is already dropped.
The so-called religious people will never use the word hypothesis for God.
For them God is not our hypothesis, but on the contrary we are God’s
creation; he is the very source of existence, he is the most existential being.
But when you call God a hypothesis that means you are putting him in the
same category as Euclidian hypotheses in geometry, or other hypotheses,
which are only assumptions; they may prove right, they may not prove
right. Only experiment, only experience is going to decide it, and that too
will not be an ultimate decision because future experiments may cancel it.
A hypothesis is an assumed fact—for the time being accepted as true, but
only for the time being. Nobody can say it will be true tomorrow too. In
three hundred years of scientific growth you can see it: something was true
for Newton, it is not true for Rutherford; it was true for Rutherford, it is not
true for Albert Einstein. Better experiments, better instruments can always
change the hypothesis.
So no theologian is going to call God a hypothesis—for the theologian God
is the very truth, and he is not dependent on your experiments. If you

cannot find him it is your failure, not a proof that God does not exist. If you
succeed, of course, he exists. If you fail, you fail; God still exists.
Hypothesis is a scientific term, not a theological concept; and science is
very honest. Theology is just the opposite, very dishonest. The very word
theology shows its dishonesty, insincerity. Theo means God, logy means
logic. But nobody has ever offered any logic about God. Every argument
goes against God; no argument has been yet produced which proves God.
Still they go on calling it theology—“logic of God.”
It would have been more honest for the theologians to call God a
hypothesis, but you cannot worship a hypothesis, can you? Knowing that
this is only a hypothesis, perhaps right, perhaps wrong… But worship is not
possible with a “perhaps,” with a maybe; worship needs a blind faith that it
is so. Even if all the evidence goes against it, then too it is so. That’s the
meaning of faith. Faith is not logic, it is absolutely illogical. And to call the
idea of God a hypothesis means destroying all the churches, all the temples,
all the synagogues.
The word hypothesis is very significant: it means you are allowed to doubt
because you are allowed to experiment and find. It is only a temporary
assumption to begin with—one has to begin with something, so for the time
being, just to begin with, we accept a hypothesis. But how can you worship
it? How can the priest exploit you? It is absolutely against the religious
people to use the word hypothesis . They will not even agree to call God an
idea, because an idea is your mind thing, your projection. To them God is
not an idea, God is the only truth.
In India, where religion has taken very subtle forms, they say you are an
idea in the mind of God, not vice versa. God is not an idea in your mind—
because in your mind there is all kinds of rubbish: you have nightmares,
you have dreams, you have all kinds of desires. God is also put in the same
category? And your ideas change every moment; they are just like clouds,
changing their form continuously.
Certainly when you were a child your ideas were different. When you were
adolescent your ideas were different, when you became a young man your
ideas were different, and when you become old you cannot have the same

ideas that you had in your youth. Experience changes everything. It will be
simply impossible to retain the same idea your whole life; only a superb
idiot can do it. If you have a little bit of intelligence then your idea is going
to change with life.
Even to call God an idea will not be acceptable to the religious people—
hypothesis is far away. That’s why I say it is too late.
You are calling God an idea… and the definition of meditation is to be in a
state of mind where no ideas exist, not even the idea of God.
Gautam the Buddha says, “If you meet me on the path cut my head off
immediately, because what am I doing there?—disturbing you. The idea of
me is a disturbance.” It is just like throwing a pebble in a silent lake, and so
many ripples, millions of ripples arise. A simple idea thrown in the silent
lake of your mind creates millions of waves; it may take you far away from
yourself.
Every idea takes you away from yourself; hence the definition of
meditation: a state of consciousness without any ideas.
So in meditation there is no way to go away from yourself, you are simply
centered in your own being. There is no object that you can see. You are left
totally alone. Your consciousness starts turning upon itself.
Consciousness is just like light. The light is here, we are all here; the light is
falling on us, on the walls, on the curtains, on everything that is here. These
are all objects. Just think for a moment: if all the objects are removed, then
there is only light, not falling on anything. But light is unconscious—you
are conscious. So when all objects are removed, your consciousness falls
upon itself, turns upon itself; it is a turning in, because there is nothing to
prevent it.
That is the meaning of object: “object” means that which prevents, raises an
objection, obstructs, is a hindrance. When there is no object, where can you
go? You have to turn upon yourself, consciousness being conscious of itself
—there is no idea of God.

In ordinary states of mind, ideas are just rubbish. In that extraordinary space
of no-mind, ideas don’t exist. So either you have to put God in the category
of rubbish, or you have to put him where no objects are allowed.
The word idea cannot be used by religious people for God. Idea is used by
the philosophers, just as hypothesis is used by the scientist. For the religious
person God is the only reality, but in using the word idea you have already
gone too far—too far from the so-called reality of God.
But your question is significant from many points. First: you ask, isn’t the
hypothesis useful in any way? It is useful—not for you but for those who
want to exploit you: the priest, the rabbi, the pope, the whole army of all
these people around the world. Without the hypothesis of God, what is a
pope? What is a shankaracharya ? Just nobodies! Then who is Jesus? You
cannot be a son of a hypothesis, it will look very odd. You cannot be a
messiah of a hypothesis. It would be a very strange world if hypotheses
started sending messiahs.
God has to be real for all these people to exploit you, and for thousands of
years they have been exploiting. And they will continue to exploit you for
the simple reason that you are afraid to drop this idea.
That exposes a tremendously significant point within your being. Why do
you feel afraid of dropping the idea of God? Certainly the idea of God is
somehow preventing you from being afraid; so the moment you drop it, you
start feeling afraid. It is a kind of psychological protection, that’s what it is.
The child is bound to be afraid. But in the mother’s womb he is not afraid—
I have not heard that any child in the mother’s womb ever thinks of going to
the synagogue or to the church, or reading the Bible or the Koran or the
Gita, or even bothers about whether there is a God or not. I cannot conceive
that a child in the mother’s womb will in any way be interested in God, in
the Devil, in heaven, in hell. For what? He is already in paradise. Things
cannot be better than they are.
He is completely protected in a warm, cozy womb, floating in chemicals
which are nourishing. And you will be surprised—in that nine months the
child grows more than he will ever grow in ninety years, proportionately. In

nine months he travels such a long journey; from being almost nothing he
becomes a being. In nine months he passes through millions of years of
evolution, from the very first being up to now. He passes through all the
phases.
And life is absolutely secure: no need for any employment, no fear of
starvation, hunger; everything is being done by the mother’s body. Living
nine months in the mother’s womb in such absolute security creates a
problem, which has produced your so-called religions.
As the child comes out of the mother’s womb, the first thing that happens to
him is fear. The reason is obvious. His home is lost, his security is lost. His
warmth, his surroundings, all that he knew as his world is completely lost,
and he is thrown into a strange world, of which he knows nothing. He has to
start breathing on his own.
It takes a few seconds for the child to recognize the fact that he has to
breathe now on his own—your mother’s breathing is not going to help. Just
to bring him to his senses the doctor hangs him upside down, and hits him
on his bottom, hard. What a beginning! What a welcome! And just out of
that hit he starts breathing.
Have you ever observed that whenever you are afraid your breathing
changes? If you have not watched it before, you can watch it now.
Whenever you are afraid, your breathing will change, immediately. And
when you are at ease, at home, unafraid of anything, you will find your
breathing falling into a harmony, into a deep accord, becoming more and
more silent. In deep meditation it happens sometimes that you feel as if
your breathing has stopped. It does not stop, but it almost stops.
The beginning for the child is fear of everything. For nine months he was in
darkness, and in a modern hospital, where he is going to be born, there will
be just glaring tube lights all around. And on his eyes, his retina, which has
never seen light before, not even a candle light, this is too much. This light
is a shock to his eyes.
And the doctor does not take even a few seconds—he cuts the connection
that is still joining the child with the mother, the last hope of security—and

such a tiny being! You know it perfectly well, that nobody is more helpless
than a human child, no other child in the whole existence.
That’s why horses have not invented the hypothesis of God. Elephants have
not thought about the idea of God; there is no need. The child of the
elephant immediately starts walking and looking around and exploring the
world. He is not as helpless as a human child. In fact, so much depends on
the helplessness of a human child that you may be surprised: your family,
your society, your culture, your religion, your philosophy—everything
arises out of the helplessness of the human child.
In animals, families don’t exist for the simple reason that the child does not
need the parents. Man had to decide for a certain system. The father and the
mother have to be together to look after the child. It is the outcome of their
love affair; this is their doing. Now if the human child is left alone, just like
so many animals are, you cannot imagine that he is going to survive:
impossible! Where is he going to find food? Whom is he going to ask?
What is he going to ask?
Perhaps he has come too early… and there are a few biologists who think
that the human child is born premature. Nine months are not enough,
because he comes into the world so helpless. But the human body is such
that the mother cannot carry the child for more than nine months, otherwise
she will die, and her death will mean the death of the child.
It has been calculated that if the child could live in the mother’s womb for
at least three years, then perhaps there would be no need for a father and
mother and the family, and the society and the culture, and God and the
priest. But the child cannot live in the mother’s womb for three years. This
strange biological situation has affected the whole of human behavior,
thinking, the structure of family, society; and this has caused the fear.
The first experience of the child is the fear, and the last experience of the
man is also fear.
Birth is also a kind of death, you should remember; just look at it from the
child’s point of view. He was living in a certain world, which was
absolutely satisfactory. He was not in any need at all, he was not greedy for

anything more. He was simply enjoying being, enjoying growing—and then
suddenly he is thrown out. To the child, this experience is an experience of
death: death of his whole world, of his security, of his cozy home.
Scientists say that we have not been able yet to create a home as cozy as the
womb. We have been trying—all our homes are just efforts to create that
cozy home. We have even tried to make water beds, to give the same
feeling. We have bathtubs with hot water; lying down in them you can have
a little feeling of the child. Those who know how to take a really good hot
bath will also put salt into it, because in the mother’s womb it is very salty
—the exact amount of salt that is in sea water. But how long can you lie
down in a bathtub? We have isolation tanks which are nothing but a search
for the same womb that you have lost.
Sigmund Freud is not an enlightened man—in fact he is a little bit cuckoo,
but sometimes cuckoos also sing beautiful songs. Sometimes he has
significant ideas. For example, he thinks the idea of the man making love to
the woman is nothing but an effort to enter the womb again. There may be
something in it. This man is crazy, the idea seems to be farfetched; but even
if a man like Sigmund Freud is crazy he has to be listened to very carefully.
I feel that there is something of truth in it: the search is for the womb, for
the same passage as he had come out from.
He cannot reach that womb, it is true. Then he created all kinds of things;
he started making caves, houses, airplanes. You see the interior of an
airplane—it will not be a wonder if one day you find that in the airplane
people are floating in tubs of hot water, salted. The airplane can give you
exactly the same situation, but it is not going to be satisfactory.
The child has not known anything else. We try to make it similar—just push
a button in the airplane and the hostess is there. We make it as comfortable
as possible, but we cannot make it as comfortable as it was in the womb.
There, you had no need even to push a button. Even before you were
hungry you were fed. Even before you needed air, it reached you. You had
no responsibility at all.
So the child coming out of the mother’s womb, if he feels it at all, must feel
it as death. He cannot feel it as birth, that is impossible. That is our idea—

those of us who are standing outside—we say that this is birth.
And the second time, again one day, after his whole life’s effort… The
person has been able to make something—a little house, a family, a small
circle of friends, a little warmth, a little corner somewhere in the world
where he can relax and be himself, where he is accepted. Difficult—a whole
life’s struggle, and suddenly, one day, he finds again he is being thrown out.
The doctor has come again—and this is the man who had hit him! But that
time it was to start the breathing; this time, as far as we know… Now we
are on this side, we don’t know the other side. The other side is left to the
imagination; that’s why heaven and hell, and every kind of imagination has
gone wild. We are on this side and this man is dying. To us he is dying;
perhaps he is again being reborn. But that only he knows, and he cannot
turn back and tell us, “Don’t be worried; I am not dead, I am alive.” He
could not turn in his mother’s womb to have a last glimpse and say good-
bye to everybody. Neither can he turn back now, open his eyes and say
good-bye to you all, and say, “Don’t be worried. I am not dying, I am being
reborn.”
The Hindu idea of rebirth is nothing but a projection of the ordinary birth.
For the womb—if the womb thinks—the child is dead. For the child—if the
child thinks—he is dying. But he is born; it was not death, it is birth. The
Hindus have projected the same idea on death. From this side it looks as if
he is dying, but from the other side… But the other side is our imagination;
we can make it as we want it.
Every religion imagines the other side in a different way because every
society and every culture depends on a different geography, a different
history. For example, the Tibetan cannot think of the other side as cool—
even cool is fearful, cold is impossible. The Tibetan thinks that the dead
person is warm, in a new world which always remains warm. The Indian
cannot think that it always remains warm. Even four months’ heat in India
is too much, but for eternity to remain warm—you will be cooked! The
Hindu religion had no idea of air conditioning, but the way they describe
their paradise it is almost air conditioned—always cool air, neither hot nor
cold, but cool. It is always spring, Indian spring —around the earth there
are different kinds of spring, and this is the Indian spring. All the flowers

are in blossom, the winds are full of fragrance, the birds are singing,
everything is alive—but not warm, cool air. That they remind us again and
again: cool air continues to flow.
This is your mind that is projecting the idea; otherwise, for the Tibetan or
for the Indian or for the Mohammedan, it would not be different. The
Mohammedan cannot think that the other world is going to be a desert—he
has suffered so much in the Arabian desert. The other world is an oasis—an
oasis all over. It is not that after a hundred miles you find a small oasis with
a little water and a few trees, no—just oases all over, and desert nowhere.
We project, but to the person who is dying it is again the same process that
he has experienced once. It is a well known fact that at the time of death, if
the person has not become unconscious, has not fallen into a coma, he starts
remembering his whole life cycle. He goes on back to the first moment of
his life when he was born. It seems to be significant that when he is leaving
this world he may have a look at all that has happened. Just in a few
seconds the whole calendar moves, just as it moves in your movies. That
calendar goes on moving, because in a two hour movie they have to cover
many years. If the calendar moves at the usual pace, you will be sitting in
the movie hall for two years, and who is going to be able to afford that? No,
the calendar just goes on moving, the dates go on changing, fast.
It goes even faster at the time of death. In a single moment the whole life
flashes by, and stops at the first moment. It is the same process that is
happening again—life has come around full circle.
Why did I want you to remember this?—because your God is nothing but
your first day’s fear which goes on and on until the last moment, becoming
bigger and bigger. That’s why when a person is young he may be an atheist,
he can afford to be, but as he grows older, to be an atheist becomes a little
difficult. If you ask him when he is just coming close to his grave, one foot
in the grave, “Are you still an atheist?” he will say, “I am having second
thoughts”—because of his fear of what is going to happen. His whole world
is disappearing.
My grandfather was not a religious man, not at all. He was closer to Zorba
the Greek: eat, drink and be merry, there is no other world, it is all

nonsense. My father was a very religious man; perhaps it was because of
my grandfather—the reaction, the generation gap. But it was just upside
down in my family: my grandfather was an atheist and perhaps because of
his atheism my father turned out to be a theist. And whenever my father
would go to the temple, my grandfather would laugh and he would say,
“Again!? Go on, waste your life in front of those stupid statues!”
I love Zorba for many reasons; one of the reasons was that in Zorba I found
my grandfather again. He loved food so much that he used to not trust
anybody; he would prepare it himself. In my life I have been a guest in
thousands of families in India, but I have never tasted anything so delicious
as my grandfather’s cooking. He loved it so much that every week it was a
feast for all his friends—and he would prepare the whole day.
My mother and my aunts and the servants and cooks—everybody was
thrown out of the kitchen. When my grandfather was cooking, nobody was
to disturb him. But he was very friendly to me; he allowed me to watch and
he said, “Learn, don’t depend on other people. Only you know your taste.
Who else can know it?”
I said, “That is beyond me; I am too lazy, but I can watch. The whole day
cooking? I cannot do it.” So I have not learned anything, but just watching
was a joy—the way he worked, almost like a sculptor or a musician or a
painter. Cooking was not just cooking, it was art to him. And if anything
went just a little below his standard, he would throw it away immediately.
He would cook it again, and I would say, “It is perfectly okay.”
He would say, “You know it is not perfectly okay, it is just okay; but I am a
perfectionist. Until it comes up to my standard, I am not going to offer it to
anybody. I love my food.”
He used to make many kinds of drinks… And whatsoever he did, the whole
family was against him: they said that he was just a nuisance. He wouldn’t
allow anybody in the kitchen, and in the evening he gathered all the atheists
of the town. And just to defy Jainism, he would wait till the sun set. He
would not eat before then, because Jainism says to eat before sunset; after
sunset eating is not allowed. He used to send me again and again to see
whether the sun had set or not.

He annoyed the whole family. And they could not be angry with him—he
was the head of the family, the oldest man—but they were angry at me.
That was easier. They said, “Why do you go on coming again and again to
see whether the sun has set or not? That old man is getting you also lost,
utterly lost.”
I was very sad because I only came across the book Zorba The Greek ,
when my grandfather was dying. The only thing that I felt at his funeral
pyre was that he would have loved it if I had translated it for him and read it
to him. I had read many books to him. He was uneducated. He could only
write his signature, that was all. He could neither read nor write—but he
was very proud of it.
He used to say, “It is good that my father did not force me to go to school,
otherwise he would have spoiled me. These books spoil people so much.”
He would say to me, “Remember, your father is spoiled, your uncles are
spoiled; they are continually reading religious books, scriptures, and it is all
rubbish. While they are reading, I am living; and it is good to know through
living.”
He used to tell me, “They will send you to the university—they won’t listen
to me. And I cannot be much help, because if your father and your mother
insist, they will send you to the university. But beware: don’t get lost in
books.”
He enjoyed small things. I asked him, “Everybody believes in God, why
don’t you believe, baba ?” I called him baba ; that is the word for
grandfather in India.
He said, “Because I am not afraid.”
A very simple answer: “Why should I be afraid? There is no need to be
afraid; I have not done any wrong, I have not harmed anybody. I have just
lived my life joyously. If there is any God, and I meet him sometime, he
cannot be angry at me. I will be angry at him: ‘Why have you created this
world?—this kind of world?’ I am not afraid.”

When he was dying I asked him again, because the doctors were saying that
it was a question of only a few minutes. His pulse was getting lost, his heart
was sinking, but he was fully conscious. I asked him, “Baba, one
question…”
He opened his eyes and said, “I know your question: why don’t you believe
in God? I knew that you were going to ask this question when I was dying.
Do you think death will make me afraid? I have lived so joyously and so
completely, there is no regret that I am dying.
“What else am I going to do tomorrow? I have done it all, there is nothing
left. And if my pulse is slowing down and my heartbeat is slowing down, I
think everything is going to be perfectly okay, because I am feeling very
peaceful, very calm, very silent. Whether I die completely or live, I cannot
say right now. But one thing you should remember: I am not afraid.”
You tell me that the moment you think of dropping the idea of God, fear
comes up. It is a simple indication that with the rock of the idea of God, you
are repressing fear; so the moment you remove the rock, the fear springs up.
I had a teacher in my high school days who was a very learned brahmin of
the place. Almost the whole city respected him. He used to live behind my
house, and a small path by the side of my house went to his place. Just at
the end of my house was a very big neem tree. He taught Sanskrit and was
continually teaching about God and prayer and worship. In fact he was
indoctrinating everybody’s minds.
I asked him, “My grandfather does not believe in God, and whenever I ask
him why, he says, ‘Because I am not afraid.’ Are you very afraid? You seem
to be continually hammering this word God into our heads, and I see you
every morning in your house chanting so loudly for three hours that the
whole neighborhood is disturbed. But nobody can say anything because it is
religious chanting.”
If you do something like modern dancing, or play jazz music, then
everybody will be on your neck, complaining that you are disturbing them.
He was disturbing everybody, every morning from five to eight—and he
had a really loud voice—but it was religious, so nobody could complain.

I said, “Are you so afraid? Three hours every day you have to pray. It must
be a great fear if for three hours every day you have to persuade God to
protect you.”
He said, “I am not afraid. Your grandfather is a rascal.” They were almost
the same age… “He is a rascal, don’t listen to him. He will spoil you.”
I said, “It is strange: he thinks you will spoil me, and you think he will spoil
me; and as far as I am concerned nobody is going to spoil me. I believe my
grandfather when he says that he is not afraid—but about you, I am not
certain.”
He asked, “Why?”
I said, “Because when you pass the neem tree in the night you start
chanting”—because it was known that the neem tree had ghosts in it, so
people ordinarily never went near that tree in the night. But he had to go
that way because his house was there; otherwise he would have to go
almost half a mile round by the main road and then reach his house from the
other direction. Going that way round each time was too difficult, so he had
found a religious strategy: he would start chanting. As he entered the path,
he started chanting. I said, “I have heard you. Although you don’t chant as
loudly as you chant in the morning, you do chant, I have heard you. And I
know there are ghosts so I cannot say you are doing anything wrong.”
He said, “How did you come to know?”
I said, “Many times I am there by the side of the neem tree in the darkness;
your chanting becomes louder and you start walking faster—that much I
know. Why do you chant there if you are not afraid? And if you are afraid
of ghosts, then that three-hour morning chanting with God is useless. Can’t
he save you against ghosts?”
He said, “From today I am not going to chant.” Certainly he kept his word.
He was not chanting, although he was walking faster than usual. And all
that I had to do was to sit in the tree with a kerosene can—empty, so I could
beat it like a drum. I simply drummed the can and threw it on top of him.

You should have seen the situation! He ran away screaming and shouting, “
Bhoot ! Bhoot !” Bhoot is the Hindi word for ghost.
In India the ancient traditional dress is not like western dress. Now it is
changing because western dress is more utilitarian; Indian dress is more
luxurious but is not utilitarian. If you are working in the field or in the
factory, Indian dress is dangerous because the robe is long and loose, it can
get caught in any mechanism. Then the dhoti, the lower trouser, that too is
very loose. It reminds us that once the country must have been in a very
comfortable time.
You cannot give the Indian dress to soldiers; otherwise they will not be able
to fight, their clothes will be enough to finish them! Even if they had to run
away they would not be able to. Can I run in my robe? Impossible. It would
be easier to die rather than to run.
This man became so afraid… When the tin can fell on him with a loud
noise, his dhoti opened up and he was so afraid that he entered his house
without it, naked! His dhoti was left there. I came down the tree, took the
dhoti, and with my can I escaped from there.
His whole house was in a chaos. Everybody, all the neighborhood people
around were asking what had happened. He said, “That boy disturbed
everything. He told me this morning, ‘Don’t do the mantra. If you are not
afraid, don’t do the mantra.’ He gave me a challenge. Tomorrow I am going
to see him about what happened to me. It is because of him that in my old
age I have become a laughingstock. The whole neighborhood has seen me
naked!” And in India to be naked, and that too for one of the very respected
priests and scholars of the town…
He came the next day and was very serious. I knew that he was coming, so I
took the tin with his dhoti inside. When he saw me coming with that tin, he
said, “What is that?”
I said, “First, you start. You have threatened, you have told the neighbors
that you will come to see me. I have also come to see you—now it is a
question of who sees whom. You can impose any punishment you want on
me, but remember, I will open this can in front of the whole school.”

He said, “What is in it?”
I said, “ Bhoot ! Ghost! I have caught in it the ghost that made you afraid.”
He said, “Ghost? Is this the tin can that fell from the tree?”
I said, “Of course.”
He said, “Take it back, it is dangerous.”
But I said, “Please look inside and see what is there.” I opened the tin can
and took out his dhoti and said, “At least take your dhoti back.”
He said, “But how did you manage it?”
I said, “Whom do you think was managing it all? You should thank me for
taking all the trouble of climbing the tree, drumming the tin can, and then
throwing it on top of you; then collecting your dhoti in darkness, and
escaping before I was caught. It was just to show you not to lie to me.” And
since that day, although he knew that I was the person who did the whole
thing, he stopped coming to his house by that path, he would go around. I
asked him why—“You know perfectly well I was the person.”
He said, “I don’t want to take a chance. I don’t believe you—you may have
collected the dhoti and the tin can in the morning, and it may have been
really a ghost.”
I said, “I am telling you, I was in that tree.”
He never came again in the night on that path. My whole family knew that I
was the person responsible, because they had seen me going up the tree, but
even my family became afraid. They started saying, “Perhaps the ghost took
possession of you.”
I said, “Strange people! I have said I did it, but now you are projecting new
ideas: that the ghost took possession of me, that’s why I did the whole
thing. You can’t take simple facts as simple.”

If the fear comes up, that means you have to face it; it is in no way going to
help you to cover it with the idea of God.
You cannot have faith again, that is destroyed. Once you have met me you
cannot have faith in God, because doubt is a reality, and faith is fiction. And
no fiction can stand before a fact. Now God is going to remain a hypothesis
to you; your prayer will be useless. You will know it is a hypothesis, you
cannot forget that it is a hypothesis.
Once you have heard a truth it is impossible to forget it.
That is one of the qualities of truth, that you don’t need to remember it.
The lie has to be remembered continually; you may forget. The person
habituated to lies needs a better memory than the person who is habituated
to truth, because a true person has no need of memory; if you only say the
truth there is no need to remember. But if you are saying a lie, then you
have to continually remember, because you have said one lie to one person,
another lie to another person; something else to somebody else. To whom
you have said what, you have to categorize in your mind and keep. And
whenever a question arises about a lie you have to lie again, so it is a series.
The lie does not believe in birth control.
Truth is celibate, it has no children at all; it is unmarried in fact.
Once you have understood, only once, that God is nothing but a hypothesis
created by the priests, the politicians, the power elite, the pedagogues—all
those who want to keep you in psychological slavery, who have some
vested interest in your slavery… They all want to keep you afraid, always
afraid, trembling deep inside, because if you are not afraid, you are
dangerous.
You can either be a person who is a coward, afraid, ready to submit,
surrender, a person who has himself no dignity, no respect for his own being
—or you can be fearless. But then you are going to be a rebel, you cannot
avoid that.

Either you can be a man of faith or you are going to be a rebellious spirit.
So those people who don’t want you to be rebels—because your being
rebellious goes against their interests—go on enforcing, conditioning your
mind with Christianity, with Judaism, with Mohammedanism, with
Hinduism, and they keep you trembling deep inside.
That is their power, so anybody who is interested in power, whose whole
life is nothing but a will-to-power, has tremendous use for the hypothesis of
God.
If you are afraid of God—and if you believe in God you have to be afraid—
you have to follow his orders and commandments, his holy book, his
messiah, his incarnation; you have to follow him and his agents. In fact he
does not exist, only the agent exists. This is a very strange business.
Religion is the strangest business of all. There is no boss, but there are
mediators: the priest, the bishop, the cardinal, the pope, the messiah, the
whole hierarchy—and on top there is nobody! But Jesus derives his
authority and power from God—his only begotten son. The pope derives
his authority from Jesus—his only true representative, infallible. And it
goes on and on to the lowest priest. But there is no God; it is your fear.
You asked for God to be invented because you could not live alone.
You were incapable of facing life, its beauties, its joys, its sufferings, its
anguishes. You were not ready to experience them on your own without
anybody protecting you, without somebody being an umbrella to you. You
asked for God out of fear. And certainly there are con men everywhere. You
ask and they will do it for you. You asked and they said, “We know God
exists, and you have just to say this prayer…”
Tolstoy has a beautiful story. It became a great trouble for the highest priest
in the Russian Orthodox Church, because three men who lived beyond a
lake under a tree became very famous; so famous that instead of people
coming to the high priest they started going to those three saints.
Now, in Christianity saint is a very strange word. In any other language
“saint” and the equivalent of “saint” are very respectful words. But not in

Christianity—because “saint” means only sanctified by the pope, certified
by the pope. Joan of Arc was made a saint after three hundred years. One
infallible pope burned her alive. After three hundred years they changed
their minds, because people were becoming more and more favorable to
Joan of Arc; then the pope thought it was a good time to declare her a saint.
She had been declared a witch and was burned alive—and this was done by
one infallible pope. Then another infallible pope, after three hundred years,
declared Joan of Arc to be a saint. Her grave was dug up again and
whatsoever was there—a few bones may have remained—was brought out,
worshipped, sanctified. She has become a saint.
“Saint” in the Christian reference is ugly. The Sanskrit word is sant ,
equivalent to saint. If you derive it from sant , if you write sant , you can
read it saint; but sant means one who has arrived, one who has known satya
. Sat means the ultimate truth, and one who has realized it is called a sant —
not somebody certified! It is not a degree or a title that somebody can give
to you.
The high priest was very angry because people were talking about those
three saints. He said, “But how did they become saints? I have not certified
anybody. This is simply outrageous.” But people are people… People were
still going, so finally he decided, “I have to visit these people. Who are
they? They have declared themselves saints? I don’t even know who they
are. I have not even been informed, and it is in my power only to sanctify a
person to be a saint.” He was very angry.
He went in his boat—and he had a beautiful boat because he was the high
priest and he was higher than the czar as far as religion was concerned.
Even the czar and czarina used to come to touch his feet. And he thought,
“Who are these fools, unknown, anonymous?—declaring themselves
saints!” He went there and found those three very simple people, three old
people, sitting under the tree. They immediately stood up, touched the feet
of the high priest and they said, “Why did you take all this trouble? You
could have sent a message and we would have come.”
The high priest cooled down a little bit, but he demanded to know, “Who
declared you saints?”

They said, “We don’t know. We didn’t even know that we are saints. Who
told you?”
The high priest could see that all three were absolutely uneducated and
knew nothing about Christianity or religion. And he said, “What is your
prayer? Do you know the orthodox prayer? Without it you cannot be even a
Christian, what to say about a saint!”
They said, “We are uneducated and nobody ever taught us any prayer. But if
you forgive us, we will tell you—we have composed a prayer of our own.”
He said, “What!? You have composed a prayer of your own! Okay, let me
listen to what your prayer is.”
One said to the other, “You tell him.”
The other said, “You can tell him.” They were all feeling very shy and very
ashamed.
The high priest said, “You tell it! Anybody, tell it.”
They said, “We all three will tell it together.” Their prayer was simple:
“‘You are three—‘God the father, the Holy Ghost and God the son. You are
three, we are also three—have mercy on us.’ This is our prayer. More than
that we don’t know. We have heard that he is three, and we know that we
are three, and what more is needed? ‘Have mercy on us—you are three, we
are three, have mercy on us!’”
The priest said, “This is unforgivable. You are making a mockery of
religion.”
They said, “Then you can tell us what the prayer is so we can repeat it.”
The high priest told them the prayer, a long prayer of the Russian Orthodox
Church. They listened and they said, “Wait, you repeat it again because this
is so long and we may forget it. Our prayer is so short, and we never forget
it because it is so simple and we always remember that God is three, we are

three, have mercy on us. There is no problem about it. Your prayer—if we
forget or if we commit some mistake…”
So he repeated it a second time. They said, “One more time.” He repeated it
thrice, and they said, “We will try.”
He was very happy that he had put those fools on the right path. This is
prayer, and they have become saints? And he started back, very happy that
he had done a good deed. These are the do-gooders.
Just in the middle of the lake he saw all the three old men running, coming,
on the lake! He could not believe his eyes. They said, “Wait! We have
forgotten the prayer! Just one more time, and we will never bother you
again.” And they were standing on the water!
The high priest touched their feet and said, “Forgive me. You repeat your
prayer, that’s perfectly right. And you need not come to ask me; if I have
something to ask I will come. I know now whose prayer is right.”
Those three persons indicate one simple truth: if you have faith, that does
not prove that there is a God. But your faith can give you a certain integrity,
a certain strength. But the faith has to be very innocent. Those three old
people were not hiding any fear behind it. They had not gone to any church
to learn the prayer, they had not asked anybody, “What is God? Where is
God?”—nothing. They were simply innocent people, and out of innocence
was their faith.
That faith does not prove that God exists; that faith simply proves that
innocence is a power.
It is only a story, but innocence is a power. Yes, you can walk on water but
out of innocence; and out of innocence, if there is faith. But that very rarely
happens, because every parent and every society destroys your innocence
before you are even aware that you had it. They go on forcing some belief
on you, and that belief you accept because of fear. In darkness the mother
says, “Don’t be afraid; God is there looking after you. He is present
everywhere.”

I have heard about a Catholic nun who used to take a shower with her
clothes on inside the bathroom. Other nuns became a little worried: “Has
she gone crazy or something?”
But the poor nun said, “It is because I have heard God is everywhere, so he
must be in the bathroom too. And to be naked before God does not look
right.”
This woman may look foolish but she has a certain innocence. And out of
this innocence, if faith arises, then it doesn’t matter in what the faith is.
Innocence gives power, but innocence is destroyed, and this is what I am
trying to bring back to you, so that you become innocent again. And to
become innocent again you will have to pass through these stages.
You will have to drop this idea of God which helps you to remain unafraid.
You will have to pass through fear and accept it as a human reality. There is
no need to escape from it. What is needed is to go deep into it, and the
deeper you go into your fear, the less you will find it is.
When you have touched the rock bottom of fear you will simply laugh,
there is nothing to fear. And when fear disappears there is innocence, and
that innocence is the summum bonum , the very essence of a truly religious
man.
That innocence is power. That innocence is the only miracle there is.
Out of innocence anything can happen, but you will not be a Christian out
of that, and you will not be a Mohammedan out of that. Out of innocence
you will become simply an ordinary human being, totally accepting your
ordinariness, and living it joyously, thankful to the whole existence—not to
God, because that is an idea given by others to you.
But existence is not an idea. It is there all around you, within and without.
When you are utterly innocent, a deep thankfulness—I will not call it
prayer, because in prayer you are asking for something, I will call it a deep
thankfulness—a gratitude arises. Not that you are asking for something, but
you are giving thanks for something that has already been given to you.

So much has been given to you. Do you deserve it? Have you earned it?
Existence goes on pouring so much over you that to ask for more is just
ugly. That which you have received, you should be grateful for it. And the
most beautiful phenomenon is that when you are grateful, existence starts
pouring more and more over you. It becomes a circle: the more you get, the
more you become grateful; the more you become grateful, the more you
get… And there is no end to it, it is an infinite process.
But remember—the hypothesis of God is gone; the moment you called it a
hypothesis, the idea of God had been already dropped. Whether you are
afraid or not, you cannot take it back; it is finished. Now the only way left
is to go into your fear. Silently enter into it, so you can find its depth. And
sometimes it happens that it is not very deep.
A Zen story is: a man walking in the night slipped from a rock. Afraid that
he would fall down thousands of feet, because he knew that place was a
very deep valley, he took hold of a branch that was hanging over the rock.
In the night all he could see was a bottomless abyss. He shouted; his own
shout was reflected back—there was nobody to hear.
You can think of that man and his whole night of torture. Every moment
there was death, his hands were becoming cold, he was losing his grip…
And as the sun came out he looked down and he laughed: there was no
abyss. Just six inches down there was a rock. He could have rested the
whole night, slept well—the rock was big enough—but the whole night was
a nightmare.
From my own experience I can say to you: the fear is not more than six
inches deep. Now it is up to you whether you want to go on clinging to the
branch and turn your life into a nightmare, or whether you would love to
leave the branch and stand on your feet.
There is nothing to fear.
Chapter 2
Jesus, the Only Forgotten Son of God

You have said that God is neither a hypothesis nor an idea. Then what is
God? Has anyone ever met God or not?
God certainly is not a hypothesis. A hypothesis can only be part of an
objective science. You can experiment upon it, you can dissect it, analyze it.
That’s what Karl Marx has argued: “unless God is proved in a scientific lab,
I am not going to accept him.” What Karl Marx is saying is that, “I can
accept God as a hypothesis, but a hypothesis is not a truth. It has yet to be
proved, and the proof has to be scientific.”
But if God is put into a scientific lab, in a test tube, and dissected, analyzed,
and we know all the constituents that make God, will it be the God who
created the world? And if Marx is going to accept God only then, that
means God has to be reduced into a thing.
Then what would be the difficulty in manufacturing God? Once you have
analyzed all the constituents of God, all the chemicals, then there is no
problem. Get your discovery patented, and start manufacturing God. But
that manufactured God will not be the God you are asking me about.
God is not a hypothesis, cannot be a hypothesis, because the very word
hypothesis takes the ground from beneath his feet. God is not to be proved.
If science has to prove God then the scientist becomes higher than God. The
poor God will be just like a white rat. So you play around and make boxes,
and God moves from one box to another, and you find out how much
intelligence God has.
Delgado, the psychologist, will be very happy to find God in a mousetrap,
because all that psychologists have found about man is not about man, it is
about mice. They first find out about the mice, and then they project it onto
human beings—because it looks inhuman to dissect a human being, to
torture him and to experiment upon him. But it is very strange that the
mouse gives clues which help to understand the human mind, human
psychology. Certainly man is more developed. You can multiply it, but the
basic idea you can get from a mouse.

God, according to the pseudo-religions, is the creator of the whole of
existence. According to them, we are his creation. To make God a
hypothesis means from now onwards he is going to be our creation. We are
trying to reverse the roles, putting the creator as a creature and the creature
as the creator. The pseudo-religions will not agree. I also do not agree, but
our disagreements are basically different.
They cannot agree because God is above everything; nobody can be above
God. The scientist has to be an observer, above, to watch, and then God
becomes just a plaything in his hands. He will put electrodes in God’s mind.
He will have remote control so whenever he wants, God laughs; whenever
he wants, God weeps; whenever he wants, God runs; whenever he wants,
God stops. The pseudo-religions cannot agree for this reason. They say that
God is not a creature, not a thing; he is the creator. He has made you, you
cannot be above him, in no way.
My disagreement is that even for something to be a hypothesis a certain
probability is needed—not certainty, but at least a probability. God is not
even probable. My reasons are totally different. A scientist starts with a
hypothesis because he sees some probability in it, some possibility, some
potentiality.
God is only a word without any substance in it; a hollow word with no
meaning at all.
Perhaps we have to interpret the Bible a little differently. It says, “In the
beginning was the word, the word was with God, the word was God.” In
this reference perhaps it is true, that the beginning of God is nothing but a
word. And then the word starts gathering moss around it; as time passes
people go on giving more and more meaning to it. What meaning they give
to the word is their need. You should remember it.
God is all-knowing, because man has felt in every direction that his
knowledge is very limited—just a little light, a candlelight throwing a small
circle. Beyond that circle all is darkness; and that darkness creates fear.
Who knows what it contains? Somebody is needed who knows. If he is not
present, he has to be invented.

God is an invention of man’s own psychological need.
He is all-knowing. You cannot be; whatsoever you know, howsoever you
know, you can never be all-knowing. Existence is so vast and man is so
tiny, so small, that to conceive that your small brain will be able to know all
—past, present, future—seems to be a fool’s dream. Even a fool will not
dream such a thing. But to live in a world surrounded everywhere with
darkness is difficult. You cannot be certain even of what you know, because
the unknown is so vast, that who can say that if you know a little more,
your known will not be found invalid.
In fact that has been the case. The more man knew, the more he became
aware that the knowledge that was knowledge yesterday, today has become
ignorance. What about today’s knowledge? Perhaps tomorrow this too will
become ignorance. It became a great psychological need to have someone
who knows all.
The priests did a great job, perhaps the greatest job ever done, and did it
perfectly well: they invented God.
It helped in many ways. Man became more certain of himself, more stable,
less afraid, because there is an all-knowing God, all-pervading God, present
everywhere. All that you have to know is the key to turn God in your favor.
And the key was with the priest, who was ready to part with it. Every
religion has been pretending that they have that key which unlocks all the
doors, the master key. And if you attain the master key, you will be just like
gods; you will be all-knowing, you will be present anywhere you want, you
will be all-powerful. You just see in these three words, man’s three needs.
Man’s knowledge is very limited, very poor. What really do we know?
Even small things can make you aware of your ignorance.
Our power… What power do we have? Perhaps man is the only animal in
the world who has no power. Can you fight with a lion?—with a tiger?
Forget about lions and tigers, can you fight with a dog or a cat? You will be
surprised—what to say about a cat, if even a hundred thousand flies attack
you, what are you going to do? You have never thought about flies

attacking, but if they attack, if some fly turns political, you will be helpless,
you cannot survive.
Forget about flies; in fact there are plants in South Africa which catch birds
and animals, suck them completely dry and throw them away. There are
science fiction stories about plants attacking men. In these stories there are
plants that can catch men, they are big enough. If you are in their vicinity
their branches can just catch hold of you like the trunk of an elephant, and
crush you completely. And they have ways to suck your blood. Such perfect
surgery—all over your body their branches will start penetrating you. And
how thick is your skin? Just a little scratch is enough, and blood is
available. And those trees live on blood; they are man-eating trees—the
man is still alive and they start eating him.
There are science fiction stories about all the trees around you going crazy.
They can go crazy because they have a certain kind of brain, a certain kind
of mind. Now, it is a proved fact that they think, feel; that they have
emotions, sentiments; that they love, they hate. Now there are scientific
proofs about all this.
Buddha and Mahavira, twenty-five centuries ago, said not to hurt trees
because they are as alive as you are. People at first laughed, that trees…and
alive? But Buddha and Mahavira had no scientific proofs for it. It was only
their experience in silence. Sitting under a tree, utterly silent, Buddha
suddenly felt that the tree is not dead, that it is thriving with life. But these
were their personal experiences; they could say it, but they could not prove
it.
It was left to be proved by another Indian, Jagdish Chandra Bose, who
devoted his whole life to finding scientifically whether Buddha and
Mahavira were right or wrong. And he conclusively proved that trees are
alive. He was given a Nobel Prize for proving trees to be alive. But that was
only the beginning. Then more and more researchers went into it. Just to be
alive is not enough.
Soon it was found that they have a different kind of brain system, but they
do have one. You should not look for the same brain as you have. This is a
stupid human idea, that your brain is the only kind of brain. If there can be

so many kinds of bodies why can’t there be so many kinds of brain? And
soon it was found that trees have a certain kind of brain system. And the
research went on developing….
Just a few years ago it was found that trees not only have a certain way of
knowing which we call a brain, they have a heart too. Certainly it does not
beat like yours, because they have their own kind of heart. If their surgeons
come to look around you, they will find no heart in you, no brain in you,
because they will be looking for their type of brain, their type of heart.
Trees feel emotions, sentiments. For example when a gardener comes to
water the tree, the tree feels happy. Now, the happiness can be measured on
a graph like the cardiogram. The graph becomes harmonious, as if it is a
song, rhythmic. If somebody comes with an ax to cut the tree… He is far
away but the graph changes. The man has not even said that he is coming to
cut the tree, he has only thought about it, but the tree somehow has become
aware of his thought.
If he is not going to cut the tree, and has no thought of it, he can pass by the
tree with the ax in his hand and the graph will continue the same. But if he
has the thought to cut the tree, then the graph immediately changes, zigzags,
all the harmony is lost, there is no rhythm. The tree is shaking with fear.
And if he cuts the tree, then the graphs of other trees around start going
berserk. They are feeling hurt because one of their fellows, friends, a
neighbor, is being cut.
So it is not impossible—if they have sentiments, emotions, a certain kind of
thinking… My idea is not outlandish: sometimes they can go crazy, because
all these things are needed to go crazy. They have them; and man has done
so much harm to them that it is time they should go crazy. And he goes on
harming them. There must be a limit, and it is not far away. Man has
destroyed the whole environment.
After my graduation I went to the Hindu university in Varanasi to study,
because that is the biggest university in India. But I stayed there only
twenty-four hours. The man I was staying with was Doctor Rajbali Pandey;
he was the head of the department of history. He tried to persuade me not to
leave: “Why?—you will not find a better place, at least not in India. It has

the best scholars, the best professors, all the best facilities possible. You
should think about it.”
I said, “I am not going because of this university, I am going because of
you.”
He said, “What! What have I done to you?” He had stayed with me once,
just accidentally. I was traveling in the same compartment to Jabalpur in
which he was traveling. He missed the train that he had to catch from
Jabalpur to Gondia—it was on a different line. Our train was late so he was
very much worried, “Now, what am I to do?” Only after twenty-four hours
—Gondia is a small place—would a very small train, a toy train go to
Gondia, and the same train would come back. It takes twelve hours to go
and twelve hours to come back, and it is not that far, just the train is such…
So I said, “Don’t be worried, come and stay with me.” I was staying with
one of my uncles. So in this strange way we became known to each other.
And in the morning I took him for a walk—Jabalpur is very green, so full of
trees that you don’t see the houses, you see only the greenery. And he said
to me, “I hate these trees, because these trees are the enemies of man. If just
for five years you stop cutting them, they will run over the whole city and
destroy all the houses.”
There is truth in what he was saying, that man has created all these cities by
cutting the trees. And if you allow the trees to grow again, they are going to
destroy your so-called civilization. He said, “Whenever you come to
Benares, you are welcome to be my guest.” After two years I had to go, so I
stayed with him. And in the morning I was going for a walk, so he said, “I
followed you in Jabalpur for a walk, so I will here also.”
Benares is barren, no trees at all. The whole university is just buildings and
buildings, beautiful buildings because all the Maharajahs of India
contributed to make a great Hindu university. The idea was a Hindu
university should be parallel to Cambridge, Oxford, or Harvard. So much
has been done, and beautifully done; there are marble buildings, great
buildings, beautiful hostels, but no trees at all.

I said to him, “Now I understand why you were so much offended by the
trees that I love. I cannot survive here. It is true that trees had to be cut to
make houses and cities, but that does not mean that trees have to be
completely destroyed. Then you will die too. There needs to be a balance
because the trees are continuously giving you oxygen. When you breathe in,
you take oxygen; the oxygen is absorbed by your blood system and the
carbon dioxide is thrown out.
“Trees take the carbon dioxide; that is their food. That’s why when you
burn a tree you get coal. Coal is nothing but carbon dioxide in solid form, it
is carbon. They live on carbon dioxide, you live on oxygen; it is a good
friendship. Neither do they have to destroy the civilization, nor do you have
to destroy them. You should live in coexistence; that’s the only way to live
—and here I don’t see a single tree.
“And just twenty-four hours here and I am feeling dry. Without seeing
greenery your eyes will lose luster. No, I cannot be in this university. It may
have great professors, it may have great libraries, it may have great
facilities, but I would prefer some huge, big, ancient trees.”
And I wandered all over India to find a university where there was
something better than Jabalpur. And when I found Sagar I remained there,
because Sagar is just unimaginably beautiful. It is a small city, but the city
is away beyond a very big lake. The city is on one side of the lake, and on
the other side there is a range of hills, and on the hills is the university. And
all around, huge trees, and so silent… Benares was so crowded and so
buzzing with ten thousand students in the university. Sagar is a small place,
and the university was new. I remained there.
Rajbali Pandey once came to Sagar while I was still there to deliver a series
of lectures on history, and he saw me and he said, “What happened? I
thought you had gone back to Jabalpur.”
I said, “First I tried to look all over, perhaps there was something better—
and here, you see… The trees in Jabalpur are good but not so huge and not
so ancient. And these hills and this lake and those lotuses… It is the right
place.”

Man has done so much harm to nature, that when I say that one day nature
can go crazy, it is not only science fiction, it is possible. If all these trees
that we have been cutting and destroying become just a little bit united… I
don’t think they know anything about trade-unions and things like that.
They have not heard Karl Marx’ famous slogan: “Proletariat of the world
unite, you have nothing to lose but your chains, and you have the whole
world to gain.” So just change the word proletariat : Trees of the world
unite, you have nothing to lose, not even chains, and you have the whole
world to gain!
If these trees start attacking you, do you think you will be able to survive,
even with all your nuclear weapons?—impossible. And it has happened a
few times, that’s why the science fiction came into existence. In a few
places it has happened. Once it happened in Africa, that a certain bird
suddenly started attacking people, and it killed many people; before they
could kill all those birds, a few people were killed.
It happened once in Indonesia with another bird; the whole community of
that species started attacking people. They simply attacked the eyes and
they made hundreds of people blind before anything could be done.
Because we don’t think about these things, we are not prepared.
You have a fire brigade because you know fire can happen. You have the
police for the criminals; you have the army if somebody attacks. But if
birds start attacking your eyes, by the time you get ready to do something,
much harm would have happened. And it was only one kind of bird.
If all birds and all animals and all trees simply decide one day, “It is
enough, now get rid of these people,” I don’t think man can survive, there is
no way. All your armies will be useless, all your arms will be useless, all
your nuclear weapons will be useless-and then you will understand how
weak you are.
You have forgotten your weakness because of all these things. But think of
the man in the beginning, when there was nothing, and he felt himself
absolutely weak. Just think of before even fire was invented. What was the
situation of man?—the weakest animal on the earth.

Fire is perhaps the greatest discovery of man, not nuclear weapons, because
it was fire that gave man tremendous courage. Then in the night he could
make a bonfire and sleep around it; and the animals were afraid of fire so
they would not come. Otherwise sleep was impossible—if you slept you
were finished; any animal could take you away.
The whole day you are hunting, and in the night you cannot sleep. In the
day you can somehow survive—you can go up a tree, you can hide in a
cave—but in the night, when you are asleep, what can you do? And the
animals of those days are no longer here—only a few specimens like the
elephant, which is not that huge. There were animals ten times larger than
the elephant.
For example, the crocodile—there were crocodiles that were many times
bigger, which are no longer here. They did not need to chew you if they ate
you, they simply swallowed you whole, they were such big animals. You
simply slipped down their throat—and gone! There was no need for
chewing or anything.
With these animals, with all the darkness, the people who invented God
must have done a service in the beginning. They gave courage. They said,
“Don’t be afraid. All that you have to do is to be prayerful, faithful.”
Certainly they took a certain amount of commission, and I don’t think that it
was bad, because business is business. They were giving you so much, and
if you gave a little bit to those people, you should not be grumpy about it.
So a little bit was given to the priest and the priest gave you the confidence
and an omnipotent God—omniscient, omnipresent—and you began to start
feeling at ease in the world. The priest gave you the idea: “God has created
man in his own image, so don’t be afraid. You are his special creation. All
these animals he has created for you, all these trees he has created for you.”
That’s the Mohammedan logic still. You cannot talk about vegetarian food
because they say, “Why did God create the animals then? The Koran says
that God created the animals to eat. When the holy book says that the
animals are created to be eaten, how can it be a sin or anything wrong?”

The priest made man, at least in his mind, stronger. Of course they
exploited him, and slowly, slowly, there were many more psychological
needs.
And they had found a great treasure in the word god : it fulfilled all kinds of
things, all needs.
The greatest need of man is to be needed.
If you are not needed by anybody in the world you will commit suicide, you
will not be able to live. Strange—perhaps you have never thought about it,
that you are seeking continuously to be needed. That gives you
preciousness, some value, some meaning. Perhaps a woman marries a man
simply to fulfill the need that she is needed. And the same may be the
reason for the man, that he wants to feel that some woman needs him.
The man has tried to make the woman not earn money, not do any work, not
be educated. There are political, economic, and other reasons, but the
psychological reason is that he wants her to be dependent on him so she is
always in need of him, and he can feel good that he is needed. They will
produce children and both will feel good that now these children need them:
you have some purpose to live for. You have to live for these children, you
have to live for your wife, you have to live for your husband: life is no
longer meaningless.
And the priest has given you the greatest consolation—that God needs you;
so much that he sends his son to save you from going astray. He continually
sends prophets, paigambara , tirthankaras , incarnations, to save you, to
keep you on the path. You are not neglected. He is constantly concerned
about you.
Krishna in the Gita says, “Whenever there is a need, and whenever people
are going astray, I promise you I will come back.” Jesus says, “I will be
coming back to take my flock.” Why have people accepted these things?
They wanted somebody to be concerned about them. And if God is
concerned, what can be more fulfilling? And when you pray, and by chance
if your prayer is fulfilled, then you know perfectly well that in this vast

universe you are not just nothing. Your prayer is heard, it reaches to God;
not only that, there is a response.
In my neighborhood there was a temple, a temple of Krishna, just a few
houses away from my house. The temple was on the other side of the road,
my house was on this side of the road. In front of the temple lived the man
who had made the temple; he was a great devotee.
The temple was of Krishna in his childhood—because when Krishna
becomes a young man he creates many troubles and many questions, so
there are many people who worship Krishna as a child—hence the temple
was called the temple of Balaji. Balaji means… Bal means child, and Balaji
has become the name for Krishna. And then everything is simple because
about his childhood you cannot raise all those questions which would be
raised later on.
He becomes a politician, a warrior, manages the whole war and collects all
those women—anything that you can imagine, he has done it. So in India
there are many temples which are of the child Krishna. One of the greatest
Krishna devotees, Surdas, a poet, simply sings songs only of the child
Krishna; he never goes beyond that. Beyond that he cannot go. Beyond that
it is much too difficult, particularly for Surdas.
Surdas was a monk, and he used to go to beg. It is not thought right for a
monk to go again and again to the same house, because it may be
burdensome to the family. They may not be so rich that every day they can
give you food. But the woman who came to give him food was so beautiful
that it was irresistible. If she had been only beautiful it would have been
possible to resist, but what he saw in her eyes was a tremendous love
towards him; that was more difficult—now the temptation became
thousandfold. The fire was on both sides.
The next day he went again. The woman placed the food with great love,
devotion. And the next day, again he was there; it became a routine. He saw
that the woman certainly had fallen in love with him. Of course he was not
courageous enough to accept the fact that he had also fallen in love with the
woman; he was a monk, he was not supposed to do such things. But what
was he doing, going for one month continuously to the same house?

One day is allowed; in certain difficult situations, three days are allowed,
but that’s all. You may be sick and you cannot go far away, then three days,
but not more than that. So the next day when he went, he gathered courage
and he asked the woman, “I have been coming here for one month. You
have been giving me food every day, better and better more and more. What
do you see in me, and why did you never remind me that this is not right for
a monk?—one day is allowed, at the most three days. And I see so much
love coming from you towards me. I would like to know the exact truth.
What is the situation?”
Now, he is throwing all his lust, all his desire on the poor woman; and what
the woman said was a great shock. She said, “I simply love your eyes, they
are so beautiful and so silent, and I would pray you that you go on coming.
We are not poor, but I want to see your eyes at least once a day. I have never
seen such eyes.” She was not concerned with Surdas at all. She was talking
about the eyes as you would talk about a flower, a rose; she wanted to see
those beautiful eyes—there was nothing else.
Surdas—that was not his name at that time. In India you don’t call a blind
man a blind man, because that looks bad, unmannerly; so all blind men in
India are called surdas — surdas means blind man. That was not his name
before; but he went home, took both his eyes out, went back with the help
of another monk and presented those two eyes to the woman. He said, “You
keep these eyes, because soon we will be moving and I will not be able to
come every day. You can see these eyes, you can keep them, and for me
anyway it is good that I don’t have them.”
That day he expressed his heart, “I was also feeling a certain desire arising
in me. Now I will never see beauty. Now these eyes are closed. The world
of beauty is no longer there.”
I will not support such a thing because you can be blind but you can still
dream of beautiful women, which is more dangerous. Because no real girl is
a dream girl, but all dream girls are real when you are dreaming, remember
—very real.
You will get frustrated with any beautiful woman. She may be Cleopatra,
Amrapali, anyone, but you will get fed up, actually fed up, because this

desire for beauty is also a kind of hunger; you are feeding on it. It is a kind
of food, a nourishment, but you cannot eat the same food every day. Sooner
or later you are going to be fed up. That words fed up are very beautiful.
The same food can bring nausea if it is given every day to you.
So just by destroying your eyes you cannot go beyond your desire—that is
stupid. But Surdas did that. And he was writing poetry only about Krishna’s
childhood, because how can this man, who has taken his eyes out to avoid
desire, think of his god dancing with girls, other people’s wives, and living
the life of the most materialist person possible? So for him, Krishna never
goes beyond seven years of age; he remains just below seven. And in India
many temples are called Balaji’s temple, which means Krishna in his
childhood.
This Balaji’s mandir was just in front of the house of the man who had
made it. Because of the temple and the man’s devotion, continuous
devotion… He would take a bath—just in front of the temple was a well—
he would take a bath there first thing. Then he would do his prayers for
hours; and he was thought to be very religious. By and by people started
also calling him Balaji. It became so associated that I don’t remember his
real name myself because by the time I had any idea that he existed, I only
heard his name as Balaji. But that cannot be his name; that name must have
come because he made the temple.
I used to go to the temple because the temple was very beautiful and very
silent—except for this Balaji who was a disturbance there. And for hours—
he was a rich man so there was no need for him to be worried about time—
three hours in the morning, three hours in the evening, he was constantly
torturing the god of the temple. Nobody used to go there, although the
temple was so beautiful that many people would have gone there; they
would go to a temple further away because this Balaji was too much. And
his noise—it can only be called noise, it was not music—his singing was
such that it would make you an enemy of singing for your whole life.
But I used to go there and we became friendly. He was an old man. I said,
“Balaji, three hours in the morning, three hours in the evening—what are
you asking for? And everyday?—and he has not given it to you?”

He said, “I am not asking for any material things. I ask for spiritual things.
And it is not a matter of one day; you have to continue your whole life and
they will be given after death. But it is certain they will be given: I have
made the temple, I serve the lord, I pray; you can see even in winter, with
wet clothes…” It is thought to be a special quality of devotion, to be
shivering with wet clothes. My own idea is that with shivering, singing
comes easier. You start shouting to forget the shivering.
I said, “My idea about it is different but I will not tell you. Just one thing I
want because my grandfather goes on saying, ‘These are only cowards; this
Balaji is a coward. Six hours a day he is wasting, and it is such a small life;
and he is a coward.’”
He said, “Your grandfather said that I am a coward?”
I said, “I can bring him.”
He said, “No, don’t bring him to the temple because it will be an
unnecessary trouble—but I am not a coward.”
I said, “Okay, we will see whether you are a coward or not.”
Behind his temple there was what in India is called an akhara , where
people learn to wrestle, do exercises, and the Indian type of wrestling. I
used to go there—it was just behind the temple, by the side of the temple—
so I had all the wrestlers there as my friends. I asked three of them,
“Tonight you have to help me.”
They said, “What has to be done?”
I said, “We have to take Balaji’s cot—he sleeps outside his house—we have
just to take his cot and put it over the well.”
They said, “If he jumps or something happens he may fall into the well.”
I said, “Don’t worry, the well is not that deep. I have jumped into it many
times—it is not that deep nor is it that dangerous. And as far as I know

Balaji is not going to jump. He will shout from the cot; sitting in the cot, he
will call to his Balaji, ‘Save me!’”
With difficulty I could convince three persons: “You have nothing really to
do with it. Just alone I cannot carry his cot, and I am asking you because
you are all strong people. If he wakes up in the middle it will be difficult to
reach the well. I will wait for you. He goes to sleep at nine o’clock, by ten
the street is empty and eleven is the right time not to take any chances. At
eleven we can move him.”
Only two persons turned up; one didn’t turn up, so we were only three. I
said, “This is difficult. One side of the cot… And if Balaji wakes up… I
said, “Just wait, I will have to call my grandfather.”
And I told my grandfather, “This is what we are going to do. You have to
give us a little help.”
He said, “This is a little too much. You have some guts to ask your own
grandfather to do this to that poor man who does no harm to anybody
except that he shouts six hours a day, but we have become accustomed to
it…”
I said, “I have not come to argue about it. You just come, and anything that
you want, anytime, I will owe it to you; you just say, and I will do it. But
you have to come for this thing, and it is not much—just a twelve-foot road
has to be crossed without waking up Balaji.”
So he came. That’s why I say he was a very rare man—he was seventy-five!
He came. He said, “Okay, let us have this experience also and see what
happens.”
The two wrestlers started escaping, seeing my grandfather. I said, “Wait,
where are you going?”
They said, “Your grandfather is coming.”
I said, “I am bringing him. He is the fourth person. If you escape then I will
be at a loss. My grandfather and I will not be able to manage. We can carry

him, but he will wake up. You need not be worried.”
They said, “Are you sure of your grandfather?—because they are almost of
the same age; they may be friends and some trouble may arise. He may tell
on us.”
I said, “I am there, he cannot get me into any trouble. So don’t you be
afraid, you will not be in any trouble, and he does not know your names or
anything.”
We carried Balaji and put his cot over his small well. Only he used to take a
bath there, and once in a while I used to jump into it, which he was very
much against—but what can you do? Once I had jumped in, he had to
arrange to take me out. I said, “What can you do now? The only thing is to
take me out. And if you harass me, I will jump in every day. And if you talk
about it to my family, then you know I will start bringing my friends to
jump into it. So right now, keep it a secret between us. You take your bath
outside, I take my bath inside; there is no harm.”
It was a very small well, so the cot could completely fit over it. Then I told
my grandfather, “Go away because if you are caught then the whole city
will think that this is going too far.”
And then, from far away we started throwing stones to wake him up,
because if he did not wake up the whole night, he might turn and fall into
the well, and something would go wrong. The moment he woke up he gave
such a scream! We had heard his voice, but this…! The whole
neighborhood gathered. He was sitting in his cot and he said, “Who has
done it?” He was trembling and shaking and afraid.
People said, “Please at least get out of the cot. Then we will find out what
has happened.”
I was there in the crowd, and I said, “What is the matter? You could have
called your Balaji. But you didn’t call him, you gave a scream and you
forgot all about Balaji. Six hours training every day for your whole life…”
He looked at me and he said, “Is that too a secret?”

I said, “Now there are two secrets you have to keep. One you have already
kept for many years. This is now the second.”
But from that day he stopped that three hours shouting in the temple. I was
puzzled. Everybody was puzzled. He stopped taking a bath in that well, and
those three hours evening and morning he just forgot. He arranged a servant
priest to come every morning to do a little worship and that was all.
I asked him, “Balaji, what has happened?”
He said, “I had told you a lie that I am not afraid. But that night, waking up
over the well—that shriek was not mine.” You can call it the primal scream.
It was not his, that is certainly true. It must have come from his deepest
unconscious. He said, “That scream made me aware that I am really an
afraid man, and all my prayers are nothing but trying to persuade God to
save me, to help me, to protect me.
“But you have destroyed all that, and what you have done was good for me.
I am finished with all that nonsense. I tortured the whole neighborhood my
whole life, and if you had not done that, I may have continued. I am aware
now that I am afraid. And I feel that it is better to accept my fear because
my whole life has been meaningless and my fear is the same.”
Just in 1970 I went for the last time to my city. I had a promise with my
mother’s mother that when she dies—she had taken it as a promise—that I
would come. So I had gone. I just went around the town to meet people and
I saw Balaji. He was looking a totally different man. I asked him, “What
has happened?”
He said, “That scream changed me completely. I started to live the fear.
Okay, if I am a coward, then I am a coward; I am not responsible for it. If
there is fear, there is fear; I was born with it. But slowly, slowly as my
acceptance grew deeper, that fear has disappeared, that cowardliness has
disappeared.
“In fact I have dismissed the servant from the temple, because if my prayers
have not been heard, then how is a servant’s prayer going to be heard? A
servant who goes to thirty temples the whole day?”—because the priest gets

two rupees from each temple. “He is praying for two rupees. So I have
dismissed him. And I am perfectly at ease, and I don’t bother a bit whether
God exists or not. That is his problem, why should I be bothered?
“But I am feeling very fresh and very young in my old age. I wanted to see
you, but I could not come, I am too old. I wanted to thank you that you did
that mischief; otherwise, I would have continually prayed and died, and it
was all just meaningless, useless. Now I will be dying more like a man
freed, completely freed.” He took me into his house. I had been there
before; all the religious books were removed. He said, “I am no longer
interested in all that.”
You ask me: if God is not a hypothesis, if God is not an idea, then what is
God?
It is not a hypothesis because there is no way for science to discover God.
Science does not move inwards, it moves outwards, and there you will find
the world of things.
If you want to know consciousness, that center is within.
So God is not a hypothesis. God is not an idea because an idea is a
philosophical concept, and philosophers only go on weaving thoughts,
ideas, rationalizations—and they create great systems of thought…
If you look into their systems of thought you will be immensely impressed.
For example, Hegel or Kant… If you are not alert, you will be surprised at
what a palatial system they have made—but there is no base. And it is not a
palatial building either; if you come closer you will find it is made of
playing cards. A little breeze and the whole palace will fall down, because
there is no base to it.
Philosophy is baseless. It makes castles in the air. Ideas are just ideas: you
can project an y idea you like, nobody can prevent you; and once you
project the idea you can find all kinds of rationalizations to support it. There
is no difficulty.

One man came to me, he was an American. He was a professor in a
Christian theological college. Jabalpur has one of the greatest theological
colleges in the whole of Asia, where they train ministers and priests and
missionaries, and they go on sending them all over Asia to convert people
to Christianity. There they teach everything—if you just go and see, you
will laugh. I used to be invited there to speak on some subject.
This professor became interested in me. He took me around the whole
college. In one class they were teaching how you have to stand up when
you preach in church, in public; on what sentences you should put the
emphasis, what words should be pronounced loudly, what gestures should
be made with your hands.
I was simply amazed and said, “What are you doing? Are you making these
people actors or ministers?” And these people go on doing that acting—
every priest will do the same. It is a training, a kind of exercise; there is no
heart in it.
If there is heart in your words, the emphasis will come on its own. If there
is something that has to be expressed by your hands, the hands will take
care of it, you need not do anything. If something comes to your eyes, it
will come. You are not to bring it, otherwise the whole thing becomes
hypocrisy.
He became friendly. One day he brought me a book which said that in
America—I don’t know how far it is true—the number thirteen is thought to
be something bad. He showed me that one of his students had done this
research to show that thirteen is really bad. This student had collected all
the information about how many people die every month on the thirteenth.
People die every day, but he had taken only the figures for the thirteenth:
how many wars have broken out on the thirteenth, how many disasters,
calamities, earthquakes. From the whole of history he had collected
thousands of facts to show that all this had happened on the thirteenth.
So the professor was saying to me, “This man has done a great job. He has
really proved it.” That professor told me—I don’t know, because I have
never stayed in any hotel, but the professor told me, “In America the
thirteenth floor is simply missing because nobody wants to stay on the

thirteenth floor.” So after the twelfth, comes the fourteenth! Great idea!
Even deceiving God just by changing the number.
I told him, “Do one thing… I would like to meet this student too. So
tomorrow when I go to my university, I will be coming here at this time.
Keep this student in your room.”
I asked the student, “Have you thought about number twelve or number
eleven before you submitted this thesis? And this professor who is your
guide for a PhD thesis should have been intelligent enough to tell you that
you should look for each date, and only then can you prove that the
thirteenth is bad.
If on the first there were only five wars and on the thirteenth there were five
hundred, then it proves something. If on the second only five people died,
and on the thirteenth, fifty thousand people died, it proves something. You
count the whole month; you have to present thirty-one days and compare
them. There is no comparison here.
You have simply collected anything that is bad, that happened on the
thirteenth. I can tell anybody to collect for the twelfth, or eleventh, or tenth,
and the same kind of facts will be collected and the same number of facts.
This is not a thesis, this is simply stupidity. You wasted your time, and your
professor has been wasting his time.” He had been working on this thesis
for three years and he was getting a scholarship for it.
Once you get an idea—it may be the number thirteen, it doesn’t matter—
you can make a great philosophy out of it.
God is not an idea, although philosophers have tried…because philosophers
are trespassers; they simply don’t believe that any territory is not their
territory. They will enter into every direction, into every dimension, and
they have some idea for everything. A philosopher never says, “I don’t
know.” He knows! And not only does he know, but he will give you all the
arguments and proofs that his knowledge is valid. So how can they leave
out such an important area like God?

They have discovered four arguments for God. Christians have accepted
those four arguments, but none of those four arguments has any validity.
They are all bogus.
The first argument I have talked to you about is that everything needs a
creator; hence God is needed. Now it is clear that this is not an argument.
Immediately the question is shifted back—who created God? And then
there is no end to it. But this is thought to be the most important argument
brought in by philosophers in support of God.
It has been so easy for the atheists to laugh at these philosophers and these
theologians: “What kind of arguments are these people giving?” But
atheists have not been very different either.
One very famous atheist, Diderot, was speaking and he stood up and told
the audience, “If God exists and you say he is all-powerful then let him stop
the clock, this very moment. I will wait one minute.” He waited one minute.
The clock did not stop. He said, “Now you see he is not powerful. He
cannot even stop the clock. He is not even courageous enough to accept my
challenge.”
But are these arguments? Some cunning person can manage to fix the clock
so that at nine it will stop. And when it reaches nine, he stands up and says,
“God, prove yourself: If you are real let the clock stop within one minute;
otherwise it will prove that you don’t exist.” And the clock stops; God is
proved. These are arguments? Neither stopping the clock nor not stopping
the clock can make any substantial contribution to the proof of God.
Hence I say God is not an idea. You ask me: Then what is God?
It is simply a word, a meaningless word, hollow inside, with no substance
in it.
Samuel Beckett has written his masterpiece, Waiting for Godot , a small
work of tremendous importance. Two persons are sitting under a tree. Both
are hobos. One hobo says, “It is getting late and he has not come yet.”

The other says, “I also think that he must be coming.” They are waiting for
Godot who has never said to them, “I will be coming.” Nobody knows who
this Godot is. They have never met him, but just to pass time they have
invented this idea of Godot, because those two hobos, what are they going
to do the whole time? So they sit and they wait, and they argue, “I don’t
think he is a man of his word.”
The other says, “No, I know perfectly well that if he has promised he will
come. He may be a little late but he will come, don’t be worried.” This
conversation continues, and then one becomes fed up and says, “I am going.
It is enough. Now I cannot wait.”
The other says, “Then I am also coming with you; we will wait there
together, wherever you go. Anyway what is the point? Do you think you
will meet him there? We don’t know where he is.”
When I first came across this small play, I thought perhaps “Godot” was the
German word for God—these Germans are just such crackpots that they can
make anything out of anything, so they must have made God a Godot. But I
inquired of a German sannyasin, and he said, “No. In Germany we don’t
call God Godot, we call him Gott.”
So I said, “I was not very far off: G-o-t-t, Gott.” I said, “You have come
very close to Godot. It is perfectly okay. My guess was not absolutely
wrong, I was on the right lines that it must be some German idea of turning
God into Godot.”
But whether you call him God or Gott or Godot, it doesn’t matter because
the word means nothing—so you can call him anything. It is simply a word
without any meaning at all, so you can play with it. And in fact that’s what
Samuel Beckett was doing. He means God. He doesn’t say so, but it is a
clear-cut indication—waiting for God; but then it would have lost some
beauty. When he makes it waiting for Godot, you know who Godot is yet
you cannot say that you are speaking against God.
Nobody has seen him. Nobody has met him. Nobody has heard him. Still
everybody is waiting for him: now he must be coming, it is time, he should
be here.

What are the Jews doing? Waiting, waiting. And they were angry when
Jesus said, “I have come.” He was disturbing their waiting. Just think if you
had gone to those two hobos and you had said, “Okay, I have come.” They
would have both killed you—“You think you are Godot? Do you know who
Godot is? Are you trying to deceive us?” Even if Godot himself had come,
they would not have believed that he was Godot—because how he can
prove that he is Godot? They don’t have any photograph. They don’t have
any address, a phone number. How can they recognize him? They have not
seen him before.
That’s one thing which should be clearly understood. When Moses sees
God, nobody asks him, “How did you recognize him?—because you have
not seen him before.” Recognition needs you to have seen him before;
otherwise some charlatan or somebody may be deceiving you. “How, on
what grounds…?”
When Jesus hears voices of God, or Mohammed hears them, how do they
recognize that those voices are God’s? Have they heard him before? Their
recognition is not valid. They may have heard some voices, many mad
people hear them. They may have seen somebody, many mad people see
somebody. You can go into any madhouse and you will see a madman alone
talking to another who is not there, and not only talking, but answering also
from his side.
There is a game of cards that one man can play. In trains, once in a while, I
came across a person…because I would not speak in the trains. That was
my only time to be silent, otherwise in the cities with five meetings a day…
So only between two cities, on the train, was the time when I would be
silent and rest. But I saw people playing cards, alone. I was puzzled: this
was a great religious game! They had a partner, and for that partner’s side
they also played; they knew both sides and they knew both hands of cards.
Those two hobos were not doing anything new. All these religions for
centuries have been doing just that, waiting for Godot, because waiting at
least keeps you hoping that tomorrow… If not today, then tomorrow—but it
is going to happen. And when so many people are waiting, somebody must
know, somebody must have heard, somebody must have seen—he must

have spoken to somebody ! And then there are people who say, “He has
spoken to me.”
I used to receive so many letters. Even now I receive them, but I don’t see
the letters because I stopped looking at all this rubbish, I used to receive
letters—and still they come but my secretary simply reports to me: “Fifteen
or twenty letters of this type have come, saying that they have seen God and
they want to meet you so that you can see whether their realization is true or
not.”
“ They have seen God,” I said, “they should have asked him. Why should
they bother me? I am absolutely unconcerned with you and your God; why
should you bother me? If you have seen God then what is the suspicion?
Why should you need a certificate from me?”
Just pure hallucinations, imagination, continual listening to idiotic
sermons… Millions of people waiting with great expectation—the
imagination fires up: just a little effort and you will see God.
But remember, whatever you see is not you. Whatever you see is some
object. And religion’s basic concern is not objective. Its basic concern is
your subjectivity. When all seeing disappears, all hearing disappears, and all
thinking disappears… When all your senses are silent, in that silence it
transpires.
Chapter 3
One God, One Messenger, One Book—One Big Lie
What is the difference between a religion and a cult?—because the
Christians go on calling the people around you a cult. It seems difficult for
them to accept us as an authentic religion. What could be the reason behind
it?
It is a complex question. You will have to understand many things before
the question can be answered.

Authentic religion is an individual experience. Only an individual can be
religious. The cult is an establishment, it is an organization, it has nothing to
do with religiousness at all. It exploits in the name of religion. It pretends to
be religious and lives on the past.
For example, Christians will say that they have a two thousand year history.
But the past is dead, it is a corpse. This is a very strange world in which we
live. When Jesus was there, Jews could not accept him as religious: he and
his followers were a “cult.”
Jesus is a religious man, so there was the fragrance of religion around him,
and those who were sensitive, available, receptive, came close to Jesus.
This coming to Jesus was not a question of any intellectual conviction; it
was more like a love affair. They simply fell in love with the man. The
religious man never converts anybody, but his presence inspires many
people to be with him. A religious person has no followers, only fellow
travelers—it is impossible for an authentically religious person to insult
somebody by calling him a follower.
When Jesus was crucified, a strange thing happened, something that has
happened to almost all the religions. The same type of people who had
crucified Jesus—the rabbis, the priesthood—the same type of people
gathered around the dead religious phenomenon, which had gone, which
was not there anymore.
It is just like the fragrance of a flower. The flower is gone, the fragrance
lingers on a little—and then it is lost. The authentic religion cannot have a
continuity. It will always be individual, here and there. One individual
becomes enlightened and suddenly people start becoming attracted towards
him as if by a magnetic force.
Jesus is not an intellectual; he is not even educated. He is not a theologian;
he cannot argue for God or for religion. In all his teachings there is no
argument, they are statements. A philosopher argues, a religious person
states. The philosopher argues because he does not know; it is through
argument that he wants to come to a conclusion. But the religious person
knows it. He states it, it is a declaration—and he also knows that there is no
way to prove it. No argument is going to be supportive of it.

But once that magnet disappears… The priest is the most cunning part of
humanity—and clever. He is a businessman, he sees the opportunity of a
great business. While Jesus is alive, it is dangerous to be with him. No
businessman will come close to him—only gamblers may risk it and be
with him. It is dangerous to be with him: he can be crucified, you can be
crucified.
But once he is dead it is a great opportunity for business. Then a new kind
of people start gathering around: they are the priests, the popes, the imams,
the rabbis—learned, scholarly, argumentative, dogmatic. They create the
dogma, the creed. They create the cult.
On the dead body of a religious person, a cult is created. Christianity is a
cult.
Friedrich Nietzsche used to say…and I feel that he has the tremendous
quality of seeing certain things that others go on missing. The man was
mad, but sometimes mad people have a very sharp intelligence. Perhaps that
is the reason that they go mad. Friedrich Nietzsche says, “The first and the
last Christian died on the cross two thousand years ago. Since then there has
been no Christian at all.” And he is absolutely right.
Jesus was the only Christian, although he never knew the word Christian .
He knew only Aramaic, the language which he spoke, and a little bit of
Hebrew, the language which the rabbis spoke. But he had no idea of Greek.
The word Christ is a Greek word, and the word Christian comes out of
Christ . Jesus never in his life heard the words Christ or Christian . The
Hebrew word for Christ is messiah , so Jesus knew messiah .
But once he died… And it was very strange that when he was alive,
overflowingly alive, and was ready to give, to share, to pour his being into
their being, the people were avoiding him. But once he was dead, the priests
were not going to miss the opportunity.
The priests immediately gather around the dead body of a Buddha, of a
Jesus, of a Lao Tzu, and they immediately make the catechism. They start
making a church on the dead body.

If Jesus comes back, the pope will be the first person to ask for his
crucifixion again, because Jesus will disturb the whole business. That’s
what he was doing the last time he was here.
Why were the rabbis angry? The business was going so well, everything
was settled, everybody was satisfied and suddenly this man Jesus comes
and starts disturbing people’s minds. He starts people thinking, inquiring,
seeking. The establishment cannot tolerate such a person, because if you
start seeking and searching, soon you will find that the establishment is
standing on a dead body.
I have heard that one day the bishop of New York phoned the pope, a long
distance call, and he was really in a very shaky condition. He said to the
pope, “A hippie-like man has entered the church and when I asked him,
‘Who are you?’ he said, ‘Can’t you recognize me? I am your Lord Jesus
Christ, exactly.’ What am I supposed to do in such a situation?”
The pope said, “You idiot! Just call the police. If he is just a hippie, there is
no problem. If he is really Lord Jesus Christ then let him be imprisoned
before he creates any disturbance—and get moving. If he is the lord, just
get busy and phone the police—and be quick to get him imprisoned.”
The same trouble will be there. Jesus has promised in the Bible, “I will be
coming back,” but I can tell you authoritatively that he is not going to come
—one experience was enough. Who wants to be crucified again? And that
time at least there was a consolation: these were Jews, orthodox, traditional;
they could not understand the revolution that he had brought. This time,
even that consolation will not be there. It will be the Christians, his own
people, who will crucify him.
Last time, Jesus had prayed to God, “Forgive these people because they
don’t know what they are doing.” What is he going to do this time? He will
have to pray, “Forgive these people—they know perfectly well what they
are doing.” But they will do exactly the same thing.
A cult is a business, a religious kind of business. It has a religious jargon; it
has no experience. Yes, once somewhere in the past there may have been a
flower, but it is gone. Centuries have passed, and since then the priest goes

on pretending that he is the representative of that fragrance. Nobody can
represent fragrance: it comes with the flower and goes with the flower. But
the priest can create a plastic flower, can even put French perfume on it…
And that’s what he has been doing in all the religions.
Religion is rebellious, is bound to be so, because a true religion starts
saying things that the tradition will oppose. Only one of these two can exist:
either the mass, unintelligent crowd mind, which creates the tradition, or a
man like Jesus or Buddha or Mahavira. They are alone. And what they are
saying can be understood only by the chosen few. What they bring to the
world is something so otherworldly, that unless you can have a heart to
heart contact with them, there is no way of understanding them—you will
misunderstand.
Jesus is misunderstood. Socrates is misunderstood. Al-Hillaj Mansoor is
misunderstood. Whenever you find a religious man, it will be simple to
ascertain that all around him there will be misunderstanding. But once he
dies, things settle down. Once he dies the priesthood creates a new business.
Now, Jews have been suffering almost a heart attack for nearly two
thousand years, for the simple reason that they missed the business.
Christianity is now the biggest business in the world, and they missed. And
Jews are not the people to miss when there is a business; they have the eye
to see it.
I have heard a story…
It has been happening for centuries that every year on a particular day in the
Vatican, the chief rabbi of the city comes with roll in his hand to Saint
Peter’s Square where the pope waits for him. Jews and Christians gather in
thousands to see this meeting of the pope and the chief rabbi, but what
transpires between them, nobody knows. The rabbi bows down, gives the
roll to the pope. The pope bows down—that’s all.
The next morning, the roll is sent back to the rabbi to keep for the next year.
For two thousand years no pope bothered to look into it, but this Polack
pope became curious: what is this? What kind of convention is this that has
been going on and on? And every time the rabbi gives it to the pope and the
next morning it has to be sent back, ceremoniously—the same roll goes

back. What exactly is in it? He opened the roll. It was very ancient—two
thousand years old. And do you know what he found? It was the bill for the
last supper! The Jews were still asking, “Pay for it at least.” And of course
Jesus died without paying, so…
The authentic religion is basically rebellion against dead traditions,
meaningless conventions. It is a revolution to bring the birth of a new man,
of a new consciousness.
The cult is not concerned with the new man. The cult does not want the new
man ever to be born, because with the old, things are so at ease, why create
trouble? Who knows what the new man will be?
And they are right. The new man is going to be trouble. He is not just going
to accept any idiotic concept; he will ask questions. He is not going to be
faithful. He will be basically a man of inquiry. He will doubt—he will not
believe.
A religious man doubts, but never believes. He inquires, because doubt
leads into inquiry; and he questions till he finds the answer on his own.
Then there is no question of belief or faith—he knows .
If you ask him, “Do you believe in God?” he will say no. You will be
surprised—a religious man saying no! And if you ask him, “You are a
religious man and you say that you don’t believe?” he will say, “Yes, I
repeat it again: I don’t believe because I know; belief is for those who are
blind. A blind man believes in light, a man with eyes knows. Do you
believe in light?”
But the believers are docile, ready to submit, to surrender to any idiotic
concept. Ask the Christian, “What do you mean by the virgin birth?”—and
each Christian believes in it; if you don’t believe in it you are not much of a
Christian.
Just a few days ago a bishop in London was thrown out of his position
because he said, “I don’t believe in the virgin birth.” If you don’t believe in
the virgin birth, then you are not a Christian, so what right have you to be a
bishop? And you are spreading dangerous ideas in people’s minds.

Tomorrow you will say, “I don’t believe in the Holy Ghost.” It is bound to
come, that “Who is this fellow, the Holy Ghost? Doing unholy things,
making a poor virgin Mary pregnant, still he remains the Holy Ghost!”
And if you suspect the virgin birth and the Holy Ghost, how long can you
believe in a God?—because out of the trinity you have already doubted two.
The third, you have not seen, and you cannot meet a person who has seen
him. They will quote scriptures, but scriptures cannot satisfy a religious
man. He wants to taste truth himself. But that creates difficulty for the cult.
The cult may be any: Hindu, Mohammedan, Christian, Jewish; it doesn’t
matter—these are all cults. Perhaps there has been a religious man in the
beginning. I say “perhaps” because priests are so cunning they can make a
whole church even without a real religious man’s dead body; that is not
such a necessity.
I am reminded of a small story.
A young devil comes running to the chief devil and says, “Do something
quickly; just now one man has found truth. I am coming directly from there.
Something has to be done. His truth has to be stopped, otherwise he will
destroy our business.”
It is obvious, if people become truthful and people start discovering truth,
what business has the devil left? But the old devil laughed and he said,
“You are too young, too new to the business. Our people are already there.”
He said, “But I didn’t see anybody.”
The old devil said, “You will take a little time to understand. Did you see
the priests around the man?”
He said, “Yes.”
The devil said, “They are our people. They won’t let the truth go anywhere.
They will make a dogma out of it and they will not leave the man who has
found the truth. Let him find it. They will surround him—they will become
the mediators between him and the masses, and they are our agents.”

All priests are the devil’s agents. They have no interest in truth, no interest
in inquiring about the ultimate reality. Their interest is how to exploit man’s
fear, man’s greed.
They exploit your fear by creating hell. They exploit your greed by creating
heaven. They exploit your helpless state by creating God. They give you
certain scriptures, mantras, prayers, and they say, “These will save you; you
are protected. You need not be worried, you are not helpless. And we are
always there between you and God—you can depend on us.” They don’t
know of God at all. They have nothing to do with God. But God is a
beautiful concept to exploit people who are feeling psychologically sick,
afraid, fearful—and the whole of humanity is in the same situation.
Whenever a religious man comes, he starts transforming you, not consoling
you, because by consolation, your sickness is not going to disappear. Only
by transformation can you be absolutely on your own, can you be
absolutely contented with yourself and with existence.
But the priest does not want you to be contented. He wants you to be
discontented; otherwise why will you go to the priest? For what? He does
not want you to become courageous. He wants you to be cowards forever,
because only cowards will come crawling to his feet. Why would the
courageous come to him? There is no need.
The religious man destroys the need for the cult; hence, whenever there is a
religious man and around him the climate of authentic religiousness, all the
cults will be against him.
So this is a strange situation—Christians calling us a cult! They are a cult.
Hindus are calling us a cult; they are a cult because their religious people
died two thousand, three thousand, five thousand years ago. And nobody
actually knows whether there has been any religious person in the
beginning at all or whether it was a fiction from the very beginning.
George Gurdjieff, one of the most penetrating intellects of this century, used
to say, “There has never been a Jesus Christ. It was only a drama that used
to be played; and slowly, slowly, the priests became aware that this drama
can be utilized: ‘Make it history.’” One thing is certain, that except for the

Christian New Testament, there is no reference to Jesus Christ anywhere, in
any scripture.
If a man of the caliber of Jesus was there, it is impossible that somewhere in
the Jewish scriptures his name would not have been entered—and
particularly when he was crucified. Crucifixion makes his name the most
historical name. In fact, now we know history only according to Jesus:
before Christ, after Christ… That’s how we know history. That man
becomes the central point of our whole history. Such an important person is
not even mentioned anywhere: neither in Jewish scriptures—nor in Roman
scriptures, because Judea was under the Roman Empire.
Certainly in the Roman files Jesus must have been referred to. If you
crucify a man, at least he deserves a place somewhere in your bureaucratic
files. But nowhere, except those four gospels which are written by his four
disciples… He is simply non-existent. If you just lose those four disciples’
gospels, Jesus becomes only gossip. Gurdjieff was very insistent that he
was just gossip, and that cunning people had used the drama and made
history out of it—and a great business of course!
It is bound to be the case that while I am here nobody is going to accept you
as an authentic religion. And you are an authentic religion only while I am
here. The moment I am gone, the best way is to disperse just like a
fragrance. The worst way is to become a cult. Then these people—
Christians and Jews and Hindus and Mohammedans—will accept you also
as a religion. They will accept you as a religion only when you have
become a cult.
Do you see the strange logic of the world? When you have lost contact with
a living experience, then of course you are as dead as they are, and of
course dead people don’t argue. And one dead person pays respect to
another dead person—it is just courtesy, simple manners.
But how can the dead people be respectful to a living person? They are
dead; that hurts. They don’t know; that hurts. They have only beliefs—and
who knows whether those beliefs are true or not. There are three hundred
religions on the earth, three hundred different dogmas, creeds. Do you think
all three hundred dogmas and creeds can be true?

Truth can only be one.
You may verbalize it differently, but you cannot make two creeds out of it.
Your languages may be different. Your concepts about it may be different,
but anybody can see that it is about the same truth.
You must have heard the story of the five blind men who went to see an
elephant. In the first place, blind people should not go to see something;
that is an absurdity. But they were curious, and the whole village was agog
because for the first time an elephant had come to the village. So they also
decided, “Let us go.”
They could not see but they said, “We can at least touch and feel, and we
will see what this elephant is.” And they all five touched the elephant, of
course from different angles. Somebody touched the leg of the elephant; he
said, “I have found it. The elephant is just like a pillar, the pillars that we
have in the temple, exactly like a marble pillar.”
Another man said, “You idiot, you must be touching some pillar, because
what I see is totally different.” He was touching the ear of the elephant, and
he said, “It looks like a fan.”
In India, in the hot summer, before electricity came into being, there used to
be fans hanging from the ceiling. And one person, a poor person, would go
on pulling the fan with a rope the whole day, and the fan would give you, at
least for the few rich people, cool air the whole day. Or people would be
standing on both sides with two big fans the shape of an elephant’s ear, and
they would both be fanning you.
So the second man said, “This is impossible what you are saying.”
A third one contradicted them both, and the fourth one contradicted all
three. Then the fifth one said, “You are idiots; I should not have come with
you, because it is nothing but a brush—he was holding the tail. “And so
much ado about nothing; just a brush hanging with something… I don’t
know what it is hanging with because I can’t see.” They were all quarreling
the whole way back home.

But how can you decide when you are blind? You should accept one thing,
that you cannot see. If you don’t accept that then there is going to be
trouble.
These cults have no eyes. I have asked bishops, rabbis, shankaracharya s,
Jaina monks, Buddhist bhikkhus , “Have you experienced it? And at least,
for once, be sincere and be truthful.”
And they have all told me, “In private we can say we have not experienced
it, but in public, if you ask us, we will absolutely deny that we have ever
said it—because in public we have to pretend. We have studied…”
When I spoke for the first time in Mumbai, in 1960, a Jaina monk also
spoke in the program with me. We were the two to address the meeting. He
spoke before me because he was a well-known person; I was absolutely
unknown. And when he finished and I stood up, people from the hall started
leaving because nobody knew me. I had to tell those people, “Just for five
minutes, stand still wherever you are. After five minutes you are free to
leave or to sit down.” Of course they stopped because I was asking for just
five minutes and it wouldn’t have looked good to go out just like that.
I said, “Just for five minutes—look at the clock and after five minutes just
empty the hall; there is no need to be here. But I have just a few things to
say in five minutes. First: this man who spoke before me knows nothing; he
is just a dodo!” Many who were standing sat down. I said, “For five
minutes, stand up! For five minutes keep standing then you can either sit or
go out.”
This man had been talking about Mahavira, the founder of Jainism.
Mahavira’s original name was Vardhaman. Mahavira is a given name.
Mahavira means very courageous, a great warrior—because in Jainism,
truth has to be conquered. That is the exact meaning of Jaina ; Jaina means
the conqueror. Jainism means: the religion which teaches you how to
conquer the truth—and Mahavira conquered it, so his name was changed
from Vardhaman to Mahavira. Now, Vardhaman is almost forgotten.
That monk was saying, “Vardhaman was born as a son to a king,” and
“Vardhaman renounced the palace, the kingdom,” and “Vardhaman became

realized.” And he was using both names—Vardhaman and Mahavira—
without any trouble, and all the people who were present there were Jainas
so they understood it.
But I said, “This man does not understand that he is talking about two
persons, and he is very confused.” The people looked at me. I said,
“Vardhaman is one person; Mahavira is totally another. When Vardhaman
died, then Mahavira was born; they never met. This man has been talking as
if they were one person and was saying that Mahavira was born to redeem
you all from suffering, from misery.”
I said, “That’s a lie, because Mahavira himself has said, ‘Nobody can make
you miserable, and nobody can make you happy, except you.’ So how can
he redeem the whole world? He cannot redeem a single person. He himself
is saying the truth: ‘It is you who cause your misery. If you understand the
cause of your misery, you stop causing it.’ And ecstasy is your nature.
Misery is your effort, your great endeavor, your success.
“To be miserable, you have to stand on your head, upside down. You have
to be as unnatural as possible, you have to swim upstream. To be ecstatic,
blissful, you just go down with the river. You are in a let-go you simply
allow your nature to be what it is. Mahavira says, ‘Nobody can make you
miserable. Nobody can make you happy’—and this poor fellow was saying
that Mahavira was born to redeem the whole world.”
I said, “Five minutes are over, now you can decide: either you sit down or
get lost.” They all sat down, but the monk was very much puzzled. It was
an air-conditioned hall but he started perspiring. But he was a sincere man,
and when I finished, he whispered in my ear, “Can you come to my temple
just for ten minutes? I cannot come to your place—otherwise I would have
come—because my followers will not allow me to go anywhere.” Such a
great monk with so many followers, and going to meet some unknown
person; and someone who has made a mockery of him, who has criticized
him on every point.
I said, “There is no problem; I will come.”

I went there. Nearly one thousand people had gathered because people
came to know that I was coming, and they had seen what had happened in
the morning. But the monk said, “I want to talk to him in private, so please
sit outside; we will be going into the small room.” We went in. He closed
the door and started weeping, crying, tears…and he must have been seventy
years old. I said, “But why are you crying?”
He said, “I am crying because for the first time I felt that I really don’t
know anything. For fifty years—because I was twenty when I became a
monk—for fifty years I have been teaching people as if I know. I have
called you just to confess that I don’t know anything. I cannot say it in front
of people—I am not that courageous—because if I say that in front of
people, I will be thrown out.
“No, for fifty years I have not worked. I have been worshipped for fifty
years. I have been looked after; thousands of people think of me as their
master, and if I say that I don’t know anything, they will kill me. They will
say, ‘Then why have you been deceiving us for fifty years?’ I cannot say it
to them, but I wanted to unburden my heart to you—I don’t know. First I
was shocked, angry, by what you said in the morning, but as I started
thinking about it, everything seemed to be right.
“First I was thinking to stand up and argue against you, but I saw clearly
that no argument was going to help—because I am not arguing; what I am
saying is simply stating.” He said, “I would love to know myself. Enough
of belief—fifty years I have wasted; and I am just standing where I started.”
This happened to many religious leaders with me. When they were alone
they accepted what I was saying, but in public they have a different face, a
different mask. Now, these people—they may be Christians, they may be
Jews, they may be Hindus—they don’t know…because knowing is not a
function of a crowd. I can see, you can see, but there is no way that we can
both see from the same place.
You cannot see through my eyes. I cannot see through your eyes. I can
neither stand in your space, where you are standing, nor can you stand in
my space, where I am standing.

Exactly like that, the authentic religion is absolutely individual. And
whenever you organize it, the priesthood immediately takes over. If the man
who has experienced is alive, he may try to make sure that the religion does
not become a cult.
That’s what my whole effort is.
So as long as I am here with you, it is not going to become a cult. But once
I am gone then it will be very difficult to avoid, because up to now, there
are so many religions in the world and nobody has succeeded.
Krishnamurti tried his best. Nobody has done so much against becoming a
cult, but it seems not to be succeeding. He dissolved the organization in
1925. An organization had been made for him, The Star of the East, to
spread his truth and experience to the whole world. He dissolved the
organization. He returned the castles and the money and the land, and
everything that had been donated to the organization, to their original
owners. And he said, “I don’t want any followers.”
He has been continually saying from that time, “Nobody is my follower,”
but there are people who say, “We are Krishnamurti-ites.” Now, what can
you do? He is still alive, and every day he is saying, “Nobody is my
follower, and I am not your leader, teacher, master, anything.” But people
just repeat these words and say, “We are Krishnamurti-ites.” And when
Krishnamurti dies they will again join together, because the master is dead
now and something has to be done in his memory—make a temple, make a
church, make a memorial, make an organization—so his truth goes on
living.
Truth is not some thing. It is not a thing that you can preserve. It disappears
with the person who has experienced it.
Can you preserve love? There may be two great lovers and you see the
phenomenon of love happening; can you preserve this phenomenon? Those
two lovers die; can you preserve that climate?—that transfiguration that
was happening between those two persons? How can you? It is not a thing;
you cannot hold it in your hands, and you cannot put it in a safe deposit.
You cannot make a temple out of it or a church out of it or a creed out of it.

Love happens between two persons—truth is even more difficult: it happens
within a single individual being. At least in love there were two, and there
was something visible outside also. Any observer could have seen
something intangible but yet comprehensible transpiring between two
persons. You can see it in their eyes, in their faces.
Once I was traveling in a train, and a couple was with me, a very old
couple, a Spanish couple. They had come to India to travel. The man must
have been eighty, the woman must have been seventy-five; it was time they
should have been in their graves. But I was surprised to see their love—
because we had to be together for twenty-four hours—in each and
everything that they did, just small things. It is not in big things that you
have to show your love, just small things…but I could almost touch their
love. It was so visible you could see it. I asked the old man, “This is a rare
phenomenon; how long have you been together?”
He said, “If you count the years, we must have been together for at least
sixty years—she was fifteen when I first met her—but those sixty years
don’t seem to me as sixty years; they have all become a small moment,
condensed, herenow. I never think of all those moments that have passed
because this moment contains all of them.”
But once these people are gone, you will not find that aroma, that aura, that
feel. It will be gone too; it is too subtle.
With truth it is even more difficult, because it is a single individual who has
experienced his own being and is so full of ecstasy that if you allow, he may
overflow; if you are available, he may enter in you.
If you are reluctant and resistant… This phenomenon is so delicate that a
little resistance on your part and you miss it. So anybody who comes with a
certain prejudice, a certain mind, a certain idea, is going to miss it. If he
comes open, vulnerable, then he will taste something of authentic religion,
he may smell something of religiousness. And that is the only way to know
it: to be in close proximity to a religious man. It is infectious.
But you cannot get it even if you hug some pope the Polack. There is
nothing…a Polack is just a Polack. He may also hug you and may crush

your bones, because a Polack hug is a little difficult on the ribs. But you
will not find anything.
I have met thousands of people who are known as great religious masters
and teachers. India is so full of sages and saints you can meet them
anywhere. There is no need to seek and search. They are seeking and
searching for you, and fighting: “You belong to me, not to yourself”—
whosoever catches hold of you first. But they are all parts of a certain cult,
repeating parrot-like—exactly parrot-like or you can say computer-like—
scriptures, great words. But words only mean that which the person has .
When Jesus says “truth” or Buddha says “truth,” the word has meaning in
it. When the Buddhist monk says “truth,” there is no meaning in it; it is an
empty word, there is no content in it.
You ask why they can’t accept you as an authentic religion. It is obvious:
they are in the marketplace; everybody is shopping and peddling his own
goods. Now you come as a competitor, and you start selling new things
which are more attractive because they are alive. They become afraid that
their young people, their young boys, their young daughters, may get
attracted to you—and they are getting attracted, they are not wrong. And
that’s what makes them freak out: these people should be going to church or
to the synagogue—what are they doing here, in this commune? They should
listen to the rabbi, to the minister—what are they doing here?
And certainly when they see you, they cannot figure it out. They have a
certain idea: you should fit with that idea, then you are religious. And
certainly I am trying my best so that you cannot fit in with anybody’s idea
—including mine!—so that you can be just yourself.
My whole approach is to give you back to you.
You have been stolen. You have been covered, conditioned in every
possible way. They have closed all the doors of approach to yourself.
My whole work is just to make doors and windows in you. And if I can
withdraw all the walls and leave you just an open sky, you will know what
real religion is. But you will not fit with anybody else’s idea of religion.

They are going to call you all kinds of names. For them, cult is a
condemnation, so they call you a cult.
Just the other day I was looking at a panel on the TV with one rabbi and
two Christian priests—one must have been Catholic, one Protestant or
something, different denominations—discussing me and what is happening
here. And the rabbi said, “It is a cult.”
The coordinator asked, “What is a cult?—and what is the difference
between a cult and a religion?” And what the rabbi said, I agree with, but
for a totally different reason.
The rabbi said, “A cult is when there is a charismatic person and people are
hypnotized, magnetized by him, surround him; and when the man dies the
people disperse—no tradition is created. That is a cult.”
What he is saying, I am also saying—exactly the same but for different
reasons. He says, “If the cult survives the death of the founder, then it
becomes a religion.” When Jesus is alive it is a cult, because it is his
charismatic personality… When Jesus is dead then it becomes a religion. A
very strange idea: religion being born out of a cult. The cult should not be a
condemnatory thing; it is the mother of religion, it is the womb from where
the religion comes. It is a potential religion.
But he was saying, “The cult is bound to disappear because it was only the
charismatic person, it was his charisma, his magic that kept people together.
Once he is gone, then there is nothing to hold onto. Then people disperse
and the cult dies.” I say this is actually the definition of religiousness.
In a more intelligent world there will be no tradition. Religious people will
be born, and with a religious person am authentic religion will happen.
Many more people will come, become close to him and will drink out of his
well. Jesus says, “Eat me, drink me.” Yes, they will eat, they will drink and
they will be transformed in the whole process. And when the religious
person is gone, certainly there is no need to make a tradition, because
tradition will be dead.

Yes, you loved your father but when he died you took him to the grave. You
didn’t say, “He was my father, how can I take him to the grave or to the
funeral pyre? I am going to keep him in my house. I loved him, he loved
me…” No, when your father is dead it is sad but a natural phenomenon.
Everybody who is born is going to die. You say good-bye to him with all
your gratitude. The same should be the case with every religious teacher.
Jesus is perfectly good, but Christianity is a disease. Moses is perfectly
good, but Judaism is a curse. And the same is true about all of the religions.
The people at the very source were really beautiful, but every beautiful
flower dies. Even beautiful stars die and disappear, and don’t leave even a
single trace behind. So what is the need for any religious person to leave a
tradition behind him?
I am not going to leave a tradition behind me.
While I am here, enjoy the moment. Celebrate the moment. Why be
bothered for the future? And remember one thing: anybody who tries, after
me, to make a tradition is my enemy, is not my friend and is not your friend
either. He belongs to the devil. He is now creating a church—and then the
popes will come and everything. Then the businesses start and businessmen
come in and the authentic religion disappears completely.
It is better it disperses in the universe, rather than becomes a part of the
religious marketplace.
So whenever people ask me, “What is going to happen to your movement
when you are not?” I say, “Why should you be worried? While I am here, it
is enough.” And there will be people… Somebody will blossom and there
will be a religious phenomenon happening around them. People will go on
blossoming, but don’t make traditions because those traditions prevent other
people from blossoming. Leave the space. If you had not been told to be a
Jew or a Hindu or a Mohammedan or a Christian, and space had been left
for you, perhaps you may have blossomed by now.
But from the very beginning they started clipping you, cutting you,
cropping you…

My gardener in Pune was always moving around with scissors, and
whenever she would see me she would hide her scissors. I said, “Don’t do
this. Why are you unnecessarily cutting these trees?” One tree particularly
she used to call a monster, because she wanted to cut it. So first you have to
call it a monster and then it becomes easy to cut.
First you give it a bad name—it is a cult—and then it is good to destroy it.
It was a monster. And it was such a beautiful tree, it was growing huge, but
whenever I was not watching, she was cutting it. If it is a monster, then let it
be a monster; it is that tree’s nature. Who are we to destroy it or to give it
the shape of our ideas? She was in difficulty with me because she is Greek
and follows the tradition of Aristotle—logical, mathematical. She wanted to
create a European garden around my house.
I said, “It is not possible.” And a European garden, particularly the English
garden, is so much against nature, because where in nature do you find
symmetry? But in an English garden you will find symmetry. They will cut
two trees symmetrically, will make lawns symmetrical, will put plants
symmetrically… Symmetry is unnatural, nature is asymmetrical.
So in a Zen garden in Japan you will not find any symmetry. Even if there
is, the Zen people won’t allow it; they will disturb the symmetry—
something has gone wrong.
Nature is wild, and when it is wild it has freedom.
A religious person is also wild. In his wildness is his freedom, and in his
freedom he finds truth.
In his freedom he finds himself.
In his freedom he finds everything that there is to be found in existence.
But a cultist remains full of rubbish and crap, borrowed empty words;
maybe great words— God , soul , truth —but all empty because he has not
lived any of them. And unless you live it, it has no meaning.
Only life gives meaning.

So it is true that they will not accept you as a religion—but why bother
about them? Who cares? I am not interested that they should accept us as
religion. We don’t need anybody’s acceptance, recognition, certificate. Who
are they?
Those three people in the panel finally decided, “It is time now that we
should have a dialogue. We should go to these people, and we should have a
dialogue.” I simply laughed at the idea—the Jew sitting there, and on each
side the two Christians sitting there.
The Jews did not have the courage to have a dialogue with Jesus—or do
you think the crucifixion was a dialogue? What dialogue can they have with
me? If they know, there is no need for them to come here. If they do not
know, then it is going to be a monologue. I will speak and they will have to
listen. A dialogue is not possible.
If you also know, and I also know, there is no need for a dialogue—silence
is enough.
If you don’t know, and I don’t know, then too there is no point in a
dialogue, because it will not be a dialogue, it will become a wrestling
match.
I say I know. So with me there is only one possibility—a monologue!
Chapter 4
Religiousness Is Rebellion
Is it not possible in any way to preserve your living religion and not let it be
reduced to a cult like Christianity? The very idea of your movement being
reduced with time to a cult is unbearable.
It is almost impossible to preserve a living religion. Up to now nobody has
succeeded in doing it. But I said it is almost impossible, not absolutely,
because we are fortunate in seeing all the failures of the past: all that helps a
living religion to become a cult can be dropped from the very beginning.
We know that many people have tried before. Their efforts are also helpful.

There is not an intrinsic impossibility, because the reasons that reduce it to a
cult are not very fundamental.
The first thing: it is not “my religion.” I have nothing to do with it. In fact,
when I ceased to be, it came into being. This is the first thing to remember
—that will help it to remain a living current. Do not make it a certain kind
of religion—Christianity, Hinduism, Buddhism—no, just let it be pure. Let
it be just religiousness.
Nobody can reduce religiousness to a cult. That is absolutely impossible.
And what I am doing continually is withdrawing all possibilities, all
potentialities, which can reduce it to a cult. For example, I have removed
God. Without God it is very difficult to reduce a religion to a cult. That’s
why Christianity is more of a cult than Buddhism.
This is our blessing, because we can look back upon the whole of history.
And only fools say that history does not repeat itself; it continuously
repeats, unless you prevent it from repeating itself. If you have accepted the
idea that history never repeats itself you are not going to prevent it from
repeating itself, there is no need. I say to you that it always repeats itself,
unless somebody intelligently prevents it.
Judaism, Christianity, Mohammedanism, Hinduism, are all God-oriented.
Jainism, Buddhism, Taoism, Confucianism, are not God-oriented. And the
difference can be seen immediately. The God-oriented religions become
cults immediately.
God is a very dangerous concept because in the name of God comes the
priesthood. If there is no God it is very difficult to create a priesthood. In
Jainism there is no priesthood. They have to borrow priests from the Hindus
for their worldly rituals; for example, marriage. They don’t have any
priests, their religion is against Brahminism. But Hindus have the greatest
and the longest-standing priesthood; the most sophisticated, cultured, very
solidly based establishment.
When my first uncle was getting married… At that time I became aware of
a strange thing, that a brahmin had been called. I asked my father, “Jainism
is against Brahminism, it was a revolt against the brahmin ritualistic,

magical religion. And the marriage is being performed by a brahmin? From
the very beginning the marriage is invalid. Can’t you manage to have a
Jaina perform the marriage?”
He said, “You raise inconvenient questions, but I must accept that your
questions are never wrong. We may not be able to answer them, we may
have practical difficulties in answering them, but that is really our problem
—and we get angry at you! Now, the ritual is going to be performed;
everybody is ready—the bride and the bridegroom, all the guests and the
brahmin have come—it is just about to begin and you are starting to ask a
troublesome question.”
I said, “It is my uncle’s marriage. I have every right to be concerned that it
is done rightly.”
My father wanted me to be quiet. He said, “You can have a few rupees but
get lost, go away.”
I said, “This is not the time—no bribery is going to help. I am going to
create trouble; I am not going to allow this brahmin to do the marriage
ceremony. Just the very idea… He is your enemy; the brahmins are
continually condemning Jainism, all their scriptures are full of
condemnation. Jainas are continually condemning brahmins, their whole
philosophy is against brahmins. I will not allow it. Either the marriage has
to be performed by a Jaina, or I am going to create trouble.”
And I created trouble. I stood up and I asked all the Jainas—all the elders of
the society were there—I asked them, “What is the meaning of all this? Can
anybody answer me?”
One old man said, “This question has been arising in me my whole life—
because I must have seen thousands of marriages. Each time the question
was there, but I was not courageous enough to inquire. This boy is right.
And one has to begin someday.”
I told my grandfather, “Now, you come to my help. What this brahmin is
doing, anybody can do. If you allow me, I can do it.”

They said, “That will be too much. Let some elderly person do it.”
I said, “That’s okay.”
The same old man performed the ritual. That was the first marriage in India
amongst Jainas performed by a Jaina. I said, “Don’t be worried. Whatsoever
the brahmin is saying in Sanskrit, you say in Hindi. In fact it is better to say
it in Hindi, because both the bride and the bridegroom will understand what
you are saying. What the brahmin says is all nonsense—all Greek and
Latin! He may be simply talking gibberish, and you think he is saying great
things. All that is wanted is a commitment, a promise, a word given before
the society that you will take care of each other. All else is non-essential.”
And that old man performed it in Hindi. The brahmin was so angry because
he lost his fee… And that was the beginning. After that marriage in my city
no Jaina marriage was performed by a brahmin.
Jainas have no priesthood because without God what is the function of the
priest? Things are interrelated. God is absolutely needed to create the
hierarchy—then the messiah, then the pope, then the cardinals, then the
bishops, then the priest… And it goes on and on; from the bottom to the
peak, so many steps. But they are all possible only if you accept the peak,
and the peak is fictitious. God is fictitious.
If I had met Jesus I would have told him, “God is fictitious. I am not
denying you anything; I am simply saying that unless you prove God as a
fact, your messiah-ship is out of the question—so there is no need to deny
it, as the Jews are denying it, saying that you are not the messiah, not the
true messiah.”
Just a few days ago I saw a film, a beautiful film on a Jewish family, a very
orthodox Hasid family. The Jews don’t accept Hasids as really equal to
them, they are outcasts. The Hasids even today don’t accept the nation of
Israel, because they say, “Israel will be established when the messiah comes
—but where is he?”
Their logic is perfect. This Israel is created by the politicians, not by the
messiah. They don’t accept this nation—and I agree with them that this is

just a creation, a forced creation. It is not a nation that grew naturally; hence
the Jews in Israel are going to be in trouble forever.
The Jews think that the Americans have done them a great favor by creating
Israel; it is not so. They have done something worse than Adolf Hitler did,
because this is going to be a constant problem. Israel had not existed for
centuries; it was a Mohammedan country, Palestine, surrounded by
Mohammedan countries.
Now just because you won the Second World War and you happened to be
in control of the land of Palestine, you forced the creation of a nation. It is
arbitrary. The people are Mohammedans, it is their country. Israel may have
been, thousands of years before, the country of the Jews. But for thousands
of years it has been a country of the Mohammedans, and suddenly you
simply change the map. And surrounded by the whole Mohammedan
world… In the Middle East all the countries are Mohammedan.
This small country, Israel, is going to continuously suffer; and how long can
America help it? And how long are American Jews going to pour their
money into Israel? Sooner or later the truth of history will have to be
accepted. If America had been really compassionate towards Jews, they
should have given them an Israel in America. Oregon would have been
perfectly good! I propose it: let Oregon be Israel. But what kind of
compassion is this?—putting Jews there. They will never be able to live at
ease, never.
So when I saw in this film the rejection of Israel by the Hasids… Of course
their reason is different. I have always been against the creation of Israel. I
was a child when it was created but even then my first reaction was that this
was absolutely idiotic.
The country is populated by Mohammedans—all around there are
Mohammedan countries, they are all together—and you put the poor Jews
amongst this vast ocean of enemies. Previously they had somehow escaped
from that Israel—history was more compassionate to them. And there was
no need for a nation; they were living all over the world. The whole world
had become their nation. When you lose your nation, the whole world
becomes your nation—why bother about a nation?

My reasons were different: that this was a political strategy to keep a
military base—because Israel will always need the help of America, so
America will always keep its military base in Israel, which is close to
Russia. And the Jews are not going in any way to be against America
because they are protected by America; they are almost slaves of America.
Without America Israel would be immediately finished, they would be
slaughtered; so they depend on America, and their dependence is a
guarantee that America has a base in the Middle East. Other Mohammedan
countries will not give you a base—you are Christians, and Mohammedans
and Christians have been fighting for fifteen hundred years, crusades upon
crusades.
My reason is different, but the Hasidic reason is worth consideration. They
say the scriptures are clear that the messiah will come and reestablish the
kingdom of Israel. Where is the messiah? Franklin Roosevelt? Winston
Churchill? Who is the messiah? Then this Israel is bogus!
I like the idea. But for me it is bogus for different reasons, but it is bogus;
on that I agree with the Hasids. Without God you cannot have a messiah. I
would not have argued with Jesus that “You are not the messiah,” because
that is a secondary question. The primary question is that “You have to
prove God exists.”
But because Jews accepted God, they never argued on the basic point. And
on the secondary point you cannot argue because Jesus says, “God has sent
me.” And the Jews had been accepting other prophets sent by God, so what
was wrong with poor Jesus?—why should he not be accepted? But if God
had been denied, then… “There is nobody to send you. First you prove the
existence of God—then only the secondary question arises; then we will
discuss it.” And Jesus would have been at a loss to answer and the
crucifixion would have been easily avoided.
But Judaism is God-oriented, Mohammedanism is God-oriented, hence
Mohammed becomes his messenger. And somebody has to be the
messenger, otherwise how is there going to be any kind of communication
between God and his creation?—a mediator is absolutely needed. It appears
logical.

The people in the Arabian countries believed in God, so they could not raise
the basic question. They only argued that, “You are not the right
messenger.” But how can you prove who is the right messenger and who is
the wrong messenger? You are fighting on very secondary issues. The real
fight has to be on the primary issue.
In Jainism there is no possibility of a messiah. Nobody can declare that “I
am a messiah”; people will simply laugh and say that you have gone mad.
Nobody can declare that “I am a messenger of God”; he will be just a
laughingstock, people will just joke around. He cannot say, “I am an
incarnation of God,” because God does not exist. From where are you
getting this incarnation—an incarnation of nobody?
So in Buddhism, Jainism, Taoism, Confucianism, no problem arises about
the messiahs, messengers. And then how can you have popes and bishops
and priests? This is the whole ladder. If you accept the highest rung on the
ladder you will have to accept the ladder. But if the ladder is going
nowhere, if it is just standing on the ground and leading nowhere, reaching
nowhere, all the rungs on the ladder will become meaningless.
I have denied the idea of God.
And with God disappears all messiahhood. You cannot declare me a
messiah even when I am dead. You cannot declare me an incarnation, even
when I am dead. You cannot declare me a messenger.
Do you see the simple fact?—that even when I am dead you cannot go
against me. How can you create a cult? I am denying all the necessary
ingredients for a cult. I am saying there is no messenger. I am saying there
is no avatara .
But although Mahavira saved Jainism from the priesthood, he could not
save it from becoming a cult, because he brought in a new concept—the
tirthankara .
You have to understand: that concept is totally different from a messiah. A
messiah is one who comes from God; that’s the exact meaning of avatara .
Literally it means descendance—coming down from above. Tirthankara

means growing up from below. It is man who has blossomed to his fullness,
who has achieved the ultimate. It is not a descendance of anybody; it is a
growth. It is from the roots, it grows like a tree.
The avatara is upside down, the messiah is upside down, hanging from
above, coming downwards; they are a kind of fall. A tirthankara is man
risen up to his full potential.
Mahavira thought…and that was the concept of Buddha, the same—they
were contemporaries, and they both thought, “This way we avoid the
priesthood, God, because we have made man the central point.”
One Baul poet of Bengal… Baul means mad, and they are really mad
people—madly in love with existence. One of the most important of the
Bauls is Chandidas. His famous statement is, “ Sabar upar manush jati,
tahar upar nahin : Above all is the truth of man, and above that there is
nothing.” Now man becomes the ultimate truth.
It was a great revolution—to throw God from his throne and put man on his
throne.
But a cult still came into being. They forgot something, but we can
remember it. They were experimenting; they were the first people, and they
have done a great deal. They have cut out almost half the possibilities, but
the other half of the possibilities are enough to create a cult: they made the
tirthankara an extraordinary man, a superman. They had to, because the
question was of continuous comparison—Hindus have avataras ; they are
all supermen with divine power.
The ordinary people would like to follow a man who has divine power,
rather than only a man. Naturally, when you are going to shop, you shop for
the best and the cheapest. Now, Mahavira was neither. He was the costliest
because his discipline was very difficult; that was the price you had to pay
if you were to follow him. If you were to go on that path of austerity, that
was the price you had to pay to become a superman—and still you would
be a man.

So much trouble, so much fasting, living naked… The Jaina monk cannot
even use fire. In the night when it is cold, winter, he cannot use a blanket,
he cannot even use fire. There are naked Hindu monks also but they are not
troubled: they do two things which are very inventive of them. First, they
always sit with a bonfire in front of them, so they are warm. And second,
they go on rubbing, all over their body, ashes from the fire. So all the pores
in the body which breathe are closed—not completely, otherwise they
would be dead, but closed enough so that their body heat does not go out.
Then there is also the heat from the outside which prevents them from being
cold.
The Jaina monk is also naked, but with no heat, with no ashes rubbed on his
body. He shivers. Shivering is the only method, the natural method to create
a certain heat. Shivering is a natural protection against cold. You shiver, the
body starts shaking; that creates a certain movement, exercise in the body,
and creates heat. That’s all they can do the whole night. In the summer they
are naked under the sun. They are completely burned up, with little food to
eat and a small quantity of water to drink.
So the path is arduous, and what do you gain? You are just following a man
who is not even a descendant of God, who is not even a relative of God,
who is not even a messenger of God. Who knows whether he is mad, sane,
insane? He is just a man, just like you. While, in comparison, there are
messengers of God, messiahs of God, avataras of God, God himself coming
down…
So in the market it was a difficult thing to sell. Hence they had to raise the
tirthankara to the same status as the avatara , the messiah, even higher. This
is simply the market economics. The tirthankara is omniscient, omnipotent,
omnipresent; he has the qualities of God. The messiah is only the messiah,
the messenger is only a messenger, but the tirthankara has all the qualities
of God himself. This created the base, the loophole for turning the religion
into a cult.
Hence I am insisting that I am an ordinary man. You cannot put me up for
sale—who is going to buy me? When Jesus is available, Mohammed is
available, Krishna is available, Mahavira is available, Buddha is available,

do you think anybody is going to go for me?—a simple man, an ordinary
man, himself insisting continually on his ordinariness.
I have been denying miracles, saying that they have never happened, they
never happen, and they will never happen. Mahavira and Buddha both
faltered on that point—but they were pioneers. I have twenty-five centuries
of experience behind me. I am standing on their shoulders; I can see far
away. They could not think that these things would become their very
weaknesses. They all—because Krishna was doing so many miracles, Rama
was doing so many miracles… What to say of Rama—even his devotees,
just in his name can do miracles.
For example, between India and Sri Lanka there is an ocean, and it was a
problem for Rama to cross the ocean to attack Sri Lanka and get his wife
back. But his disciple, the monkey god, Hanumana, said, “Don’t be
worried. Your name is enough.” And in his name he started throwing stones
in the ocean—and because of Rama’s name the stones were floating, not
drowning.
The whole army of monkeys and of donkeys, and perhaps Yankees, all were
there; so he started throwing stones, rocks, in the name of Rama, and the
rocks started floating—soon there was a bridge. They passed over the
bridge just by the using the name. Hanumana said, “You need not be
worried, your name is enough. You don’t need to do anything.”
Now, where such stories are going around what chance you have got to
compete? Buddha’s disciples had to invent stories, Mahavira’s disciples had
to invent stories. They are all invented stories; and invented in such a way
that they made Mahavira and Buddha superior to Rama, to Krishna, to the
Hindu trinity, the trimurti—Brahma, Vishnu, Mahesh.
When Buddha became enlightened, the story is that all the gods—Brahma,
Vishnu, Mahesh—all three came down to touch his feet, because an
enlightened person is far higher than any gods. You should note that in
Judaism, Christianity, Mohammedanism, God is always singular; in
Hinduism God is always plural—it is “gods,” thirty-three million gods.

The chiefs of all these thirty-three million gods are these three, Brahma,
Vishnu, Mahesh. The moment Buddha became enlightened, all three ran
down from paradise to touch his feet. For seven days Buddha remained
silent. It was Brahma, Vishnu, Mahesh, these three gods, who persuaded
him to speak because even gods don’t know the supreme truth. Even gods
are eager to hear from you: What have you attained? What’s your
realization? What has it done to you? Buddha argued in many ways, but
finally he was persuaded by the three gods.
His argument was very good. He said, “If I speak, in the first place what I
have experienced will not be conveyed through the words. Secondly, even if
a little fragrance of it goes with the words, where are the people who will be
able to receive it? Where are the people who are available? And who wants
truth in the first place? People want consolation.”
But the three gods said, “You may be right about ninety-nine point nine
percent of people, but still there is point one percent of people left who are
available, who are receptive, who are willing to go to the further shore. Will
you disappoint them?”
Now this whole story is just to prove that even gods are not enlightened.
And in Buddhism and in Jainism both, gods are people who have earned
much virtue, and because of their great virtue they are rewarded with
paradise. But there is a time limit to it. Sooner or later the reward for their
virtues will be finished; they will have to come back again to the earth and
again move into the wheel of life and death.
That’s why there are thirty-three million gods, because with one god how
can you manage this idea? So many people, in millions of years, have been
virtuous, religious, truthful, honest—they all have to be rewarded; paradise
is a reward.
In Christianity, Mohammedanism, Judaism, you don’t have anything above
heaven. In Jainism and Buddhism, you have something above heaven.
Heaven is only a pleasure place, a holiday, a pleasure resort—a holiday
from this continuous wheel of misery, anxiety, anguish. One needs a little
holiday, a long weekend.

Heaven to the Jainas and the Buddhists is only a long weekend. But don’t
forget!—it comes to an end and you fall back again into the same rut. And
now it is even more unbearable because you have lived in such tremendous
pleasure and splendor and now again you are living this boredom called
life. It becomes more of a hell than it was before because you have
something to compare it with.
The tirthankara does not go to heaven, the buddha does not go to heaven,
remember. The enlightened person goes to moksha , which is beyond
heaven. From there, there is no coming back. One has got out of the wheel
of life and death completely. It is not a holiday resort.
Do you see my point? The Jainas and Buddhists had to create something
above heaven. They had to give qualities to their tirthankaras , better,
higher, superior to even those your god has, because it was a question of
simple competition in the marketplace. But they forgot that this competition
is going to be their very failure.
They succeeded in attracting people: almost the whole country’s
intelligentsia was influenced by them. Only unintelligent people, the
masses, remained with Hindu gods. The intelligent people could not bow
down to a monkey god—it looked so idiotic; they could not worship a tree.
Just any kind of a stone, you paint it red, put two flowers on it, and wait.
Soon, somebody else will come and put flowers, somebody else will come
and put a coconut—and a god is born, you have given birth to a god. And
this happens every day.
The corporations in India, the municipal committees in India are in
continual trouble. In the middle of the road a god appears! Now you cannot
remove it; that is interfering with the feelings of religious people—and soon
a temple will arise there. First any stone colored red, any shape will do—
because with thirty-three million gods, who knows how many shapes they
have? Just all that you need are worshippers, and worshippers are available.
Then neither the government can remove it, nor can anybody else remove
it.
And when the god is there, a shelter is needed for it. A temple is going to be
raised there, just in the middle of the road. To remove it means immediate

riots; people will be killed and slaughtered, and that fire will spread all over
the country; so it is better to allow the god to remain there. It destroys the
beauty of the road, it disturbs the traffic, it is dangerous, it can cause
accidents, but there is nothing you can do.
In India only Jaipur has straight and plain roads—the only town, the only
city—and it is perhaps the most beautiful city in India. But it happened
because the man who made it, Jai Singh—he was the king of Jaipur state—
was an atheist. And he called from south India, from the Nizam of
Hyderabad… The Nizam of Hyderabad had a very intelligent chief minister,
Mirza Ibrahim. Jai Singh was born a Hindu but he asked Nizam to give
Mirza Ibrahim to him for at least a few years while he was making Jaipur.
He wanted it to be India’s Paris.
And he almost succeeded; he made something tremendously beautiful. And
why did he ask a Mohammedan? He told Mirza, “I don’t want any nuisance
—because it is going to happen: everywhere temples and mosques and
things will start happening, and our whole plan will be disturbed.
“So if a temple appears—you are not a Hindu, simply remove it in the
night. No hustle, no bustle about it; the way it appears, the same way it
disappears. In the morning it is not there at all. Nobody should even be
suspicious that it is disappearing; everything should go quietly, but in the
night the whole temple is to completely disappear. And if any mosque
appears, I am not a Mohammedan… Perhaps you will feel it is difficult…?”
Mirza said, “That’s true: A mosque I cannot remove.”
Jai Singh said, “That, I will do.”
They removed many temples, many mosques that were appearing, and Jai
Singh proved right: they were bound to appear because Jaipur has the
biggest roads. Now, on any crossroad where he wanted a garden to be,
Hindus would love to have their temple. Where you can find such a
beautiful place? And you need not buy it, you need not ask anybody for it,
because for God there is no question.

And all that you have to do, simple things… You just go in the night, you
put a round stone—dig a little hole in the earth, put in the round stone—and
the next morning you declare that in the night a God appeared to you, and
he said that at such and such place he had been waiting for many, many
centuries, and now it was time that he should be brought to people’s notice
and a temple should be raised.

Soon crowds will rush to check whether the dream is true or not. And it is
going to be true: a god is found!—and it is god’s own indication, you
cannot interfere. But Jai Singh managed very well. The god would appear;
they would start working, and in the night the god would disappear. And Jai
Singh would say, “What can I do? The way he appears, the same way he
disappears. We cannot prevent him from disappearing; we cannot prevent
him from appearing, what can we do?” That’s how he managed to have
beautiful streets in Jaipur.
While he was alive, Jaipur had only one color, red. All the houses, on the
main streets were made exactly the same; so for miles you could see the
same houses. It looked so beautiful. And they were all made with red stone,
nothing else was allowed. The whole city was red stone. And with the
greenery, the red stone is so beautiful because green and red are the basic
colors of nature. Nature knows only two colors, red and green.
Since Independence everything has been disturbed. Every year I would go
there, and I would see gods appearing, temples being raised in the middle of
the street, on the corner of the street, anywhere. Now, the secular
government cannot do anything. The man had made it so beautiful… And
now people are painting different colors on their houses because how can
you prevent them, it is their house.
Jai Singh was a crazy king. There was no question of anybody raising the
idea that a house could be of any other color. In Jaipur only one color was
allowed: “If you don’t want that color, get out of Jaipur”—and he was
whole and soul!
Even in his time, efforts to change it were made in the Supreme Court of
India. But the Supreme Court said, “As far as internal affairs are concerned
we cannot do anything; that is our agreement with the king—only on
foreign affairs, but this is not a foreign affair. He is absolutely sovereign. If
he wants the red color, we cannot do anything. If he wants only one kind of
model for all the houses, we cannot do anything.”
But now… When I visited the last time, I almost felt like crying, because
they have destroyed the whole thing. All those beautiful lanes with similar

houses had something poetic; and all those red stones with green trees…
The whole place was a vast garden. Now all kinds of colors have appeared.
Old houses are being demolished, skyscrapers are being made. People are
changing their houses because people don’t want a similar model, the same
model, and nobody can prevent them. On the streets—temples, mosques,
gurudwaras ; in the name of religion you can do anything.
Buddha and Mahavira tried, but were not aware of all the implications. I am
aware of all the implications. You may not be able to see what I am trying
to do: I am destroying all the bases, so that when I am gone you will not
find a single base to make a cult out of my vision of religiousness.
Hence I said, it is almost impossible, because people are so stupid that out
of their stupidity they can start inventing things for which I am not even
leaving a single seed. For example: just the other day a letter was brought to
me. Professor Vijay Chauhan, a professor in Washington University, gave
an interview about me saying that we were great friends, and we used to
have long discussions.
I have never seen this man, what to say about long discussions!—and
friendship? Yes, I have heard his name, so I know who he is, but I have not
seen him. His mother was a great poetess, Subhadra Kumari Chauhan, and
because of her I used to go, once in a while, to her house, and she used to
recite her poems to me. She just had mentioned to me, “I have two sons,
one is Ajay Chauhan, the other is Vijay Chauhan—but it is strange that
whenever you come they are not at home. I would like you someday to
meet them.” But she died and that day never came. I was never introduced
by her to her two sons.
Ajay Chauhan I have seen, just on the road, but we were not acquainted
with each other. But this man, Vijay Chauhan, I have not even seen—and he
is saying that he was a great friend and for hours we used to discuss
philosophy, religion, and great problems.
Now, many letters of this type come. My secretary asks me, “Do you know
this man?”—she brings the photograph. “This man says that he knows you
from your very childhood, and you have stayed with him many times in his

home.” I see the picture…and my memory is not bad, not so bad. I have
never seen this man in my whole life, not even heard his name.
One letter was from New York; I had never heard the name. The man was
from India; he says that he is a great poet and I have been quoting his
poetry in my lectures. I have never known his name, I have never known
any poetry connected with him, any book written by him. But he says that
we are great friends. Now what to do with these people? Once I have gone,
all kinds of stories will start.
It will be for you to stop all these kinds of stories. Remember, whatsoever is
meaningful I have told you, and whatsoever I have not told you is
meaningless: that should be the criterion.
If somebody comes and says, “I have seen a miracle…” And there will be
people; it gives them importance—that I performed a miracle. Yes, a few
times I have performed a miracle.
One man, Doctor Bhagwandas—he is a professor now; we studied together
in the same university, although he was in a different department. But we
were friendly; he used to come, and he used to go for a walk with me. He
invited me once to go to his home. His home was not very far away from
the university, just fifty miles.
So I said, “Next Saturday we can go. It is not far away.” We went there; we
were both sleeping in the same room, on two beds. Between our two beds
was a small table with a clock, because I wanted to get up at three. At that
time I used to get up at three, but in case I went on sleeping, I told him to
put on the alarm—but he had no alarm clock.
He said, “I don’t have an alarm clock here.”
So I said, “Then forget about it.” I went to sleep.
But he felt uneasy, so he went to the neighbor, borrowed an alarm clock and
put it in the middle on the table. I was asleep. Because of my habit of
getting up at three, I woke up at three, and I heard the tick tock of the clock
by my side, so I looked. It was a luminous clock, so I could see that there

were still five minutes to go before three o’clock. So I covered myself, and
from inside the blankets I said, “Bhagwan”—his name was Bhagwandas,
and I used to call him Bhagwan—“It is five to three.”
He opened his blanket, and looked at me covered in blankets. He looked at
the clock… Five to three! He said, “What?”
I said, “It is five minutes to three. After five minutes wake me up.”
He said, “You are already awake.”
I said, “Just in case I fall asleep, because there is no clock and…”
He said, “No clock!”
And the next day the whole town was talking about it: a miracle! Exactly
five minutes! The next day I told him, “There was no miracle, nothing; I
was just joking. I just looked at that clock and I thought, this is good… You
think that I didn’t know about the clock because you must have brought it in
later on after I had fallen asleep.” But he wouldn’t believe me.
He said, “You are trying to just drop the idea of miracles, but it was a
miracle.”
I said, “I am saying that it was nothing.”
I explained the whole thing to him, but he said, “This is all mere
explanation.”
Now what to do with these people? Once I am not there, they will all be
there… And I have been in hundreds of homes, and many miracles I have
performed—but none of them was a miracle. I was just joking, and when I
found there was a possibility, I never missed it.
So remember it, that I have never performed a miracle, because miracles as
such are impossible. Nobody has performed them.
But the gullible mind…

A man came to me almost in the middle of the night; it was twelve, I had
been asleep for three hours. He knocked on the door, and made so much
noise that I had to wake up and open the door, and I asked, “What is the
matter? What do you want at this time of the night?”
He said, “I have a terrible pain in my stomach, and this pain has been
coming on and going away, coming on and going away, for at least three
months. I go to a certain doctor, he gives me medicine, but no permanent
cure has happened. And just nearabout ten, this pain came; it was so terrible
that I went to the doctor and he said that this pain was something spiritual—
he suggested your name.”
I asked him, “Who is this doctor? Is his name Doctor Barat?”
He said, “Yes.”
Barat was my friend. He was an old man, but he loved me very much. So I
said, “If Barat has sent you then I will have to do something. But you have
to give me a promise that you will never say anything about this to
anybody, because I don’t want to be disturbed every night, and I don’t want
patients to be here the whole day. I have other things to do.”
He said, “I promise, but just help me. Barat has told me that if you give me
just a glass of water, with your hand, I will be cured.”
I said, “First give me the promise.” And he hesitated, because if he has
found such a source of miracles, to give such a promise…
He said, “You don’t see my pain; you are talking about your promise. Just
give me a glass of water—I am not asking much.”
I said, “First you give me a promise. Take an oath in the name of God”—
and I could see that he was a brahmin and he had… Brahmins of different
faith believing in one god or another god have different marks on their
forehead; those are trademarks, so you can judge, and know who the man is
worshipping. So I knew that he was a devotee of Shiva, and I said, “You
will have to take the oath in the name of Shiva.”

He said, “This is very difficult; I am a loud mouth, I cannot keep anything
to myself. Such a great thing, and you are asking me to make a promise. I
may not be able to keep it because if I keep it then it will be more painful
than my pain. I won’t sleep, I won’t go anywhere, I won’t talk to anybody
because it will be just there waiting to come out.”
I said, “You decide. I have to go to sleep, so be quick.”
He said, “You have created a dilemma for me. Whatsoever I do I will be in
trouble. This pain is not going to go away because to keep your promise…
And you don’t know me—I love gossiping. I am a liar; I go on lying—and
this is the truth.”
But I said, “Then you decide. Keep your pain.”
Finally he said, “Okay, in the name of Shiva I give you the promise. But
you are too hard, too cruel.”
I gave him a glass of water. He drank the water and he said, “My God! The
pain is gone!”
Now, there was no miracle, but because I haggled so much about the
promise he became more and more certain that the miracle was going to
happen: “Otherwise this man would not insist so much.” The more I
delayed, the more I insisted, the more he became certain that there was
something in it. That certainty worked.
It was simple hypnosis, he got autohypnotized; he became ready. If I had
given him the water directly, the pain would not have disappeared. This
much of a gap of haggling was needed. And I reminded him when he was
leaving, “Remember, if you break the oath, the pain will be back.”
He said, “You have destroyed me. I was thinking that when Shiva meets me
I will be able to fall at his feet and ask his forgiveness; and I have heard that
he is very forgiving. Now you have destroyed that too—and the pain will
come back.”
I said, “Certainly the pain will come back, once you utter a word.”

And the next day he was there. He said, “I could not manage it. At least I
had to go to Doctor Barat and tell him, ‘All your medicine and medical
knowledge is nonsense. Just a glass of water did what you could not do in
three months. And you have been taking fees each time I was coming—give
my fee back. If you knew it beforehand then for three months you have
been cheating me.’ But the pain came back.”
He came running to me, “I am a fool, but what to do? I just could not resist
putting this Doctor Barat right in his place. For three months I have been
suffering and he knew the cure, and he went on giving me this tablet and
that, and then he started the injections. Finally he started saying, ‘You may
need surgery’—and just a glass of water! And he did not suggest that at
all.”
I said, “I cannot help you. Now the water won’t work; you have broken the
promise—the miracle will not happen again. Now go to Doctor Barat and
take his medicine, or do whatsoever you want.”
But he went around, even though still in pain, saying, “I have seen a
miracle.”
These people are there—sometimes very educated people, but deep down
they are as gullible as any uneducated person. Once I am not there, you
have to remember it, that all my miracles were simply jokes and nothing
else; that I have been enjoying every opportunity. If there was an
opportunity to manage a miracle, I have not missed it. But there was no
miracle at all. If you know just a little bit of human psychology you can do
great things which are not prescribed in the psychology literature and
textbooks—because they are not concerned with that.
But if you know a little bit of human psychology, just a little bit—not much
is needed… And man is ready, he wants the miracle to happen. He wants to
see the miracle happen; he is ready for the messiah. He is hankering,
desiring deep down to find someone who is higher than him, more powerful
than him; then he can follow him.
But I have been cutting all the roots. You ask me, “Is there any possibility
of your religion not being reduced to a cult?” Yes, there is a possibility, only

one possibility—and that is that you go on becoming enlightened, so there
is always a chain of enlightened people around.
Buddha’s religion was not reduced to a cult for five hundred years. For five
hundred years the chain continued; there was always somebody who was
enlightened, so in some way the Buddha consciousness was present. It
remained alive. But after five hundred years the gap came, and then for six
hundred years Buddhism was just a cult.
Then came Bodhidharma. Bodhidharma created a new dimension, Zen,
which is still alive fourteen hundred years later. This is the longest time any
religion has been alive. Bodhidharma has got the trophy, because in Zen,
continuously in these fourteen hundred years, there has not been a single
day when there was not somebody alive and enlightened—no break, no gap.
Hence it is possible—difficult, but possible.
All that you have to remember is: no God, no priesthood, no holy scripture,
no miracles, no superman. For the first time in the whole of history I am
saying that an ordinary man can be enlightened. In fact only an ordinary
man can be enlightened. Ordinariness for the first time is given this much
respect. So don’t try to make me someone extraordinary.
I am trying in every way so that you cannot make me in any way special. I
go on doing everything that will prove that this was not a superman or a
messiah or a tirthankara . I will not fit with any image. You cannot manage
to make me extraordinary. Beware of the human tendency: one wants one’s
master to be extraordinary. But this is what leads ultimately to the death of
religion.
You should not desire your master to be extraordinary. You should rather
rejoice that an ordinary man has become enlightened. That means he has
opened the doors to enlightenment for everybody. You need not be the only
begotten son of God, you need not be a tirthankara earning virtue for
millions of lives, you need not be born with special qualities, talents.
Have you seen the statue of Mahavira? In India you may have visited a
Jaina temple—otherwise you can look in a book. On all twenty-four
tirthankaras you will see a few very strange things. One is that all twenty-

four statues look exactly alike. You cannot say which is which, who is who.
Even Jainas cannot say, so they have made small symbols under every
statue: under one statue a lion, under another statue something else, under
another statue the swastika. You may not be aware of it but just underneath
the statue there is the symbol which indicates whose statue it is—
Mahavira’s?—otherwise there is no difference.
Now, this is not possible. These twenty-four people were born over ten
thousand years; there is no possibility of them all being similar—the same
face, the same nose, the same body, the same proportions. You will see one
thing more strange: all their ears, their ear lobes, will be touching their
shoulders—such long ear lobes. That is especially needed if you are a
tirthankara .
I have seen foolish Jaina monks massage their ear lobes, pull them to make
them longer, because the longer they are, the more respectable you start
becoming. It is possible that perhaps Mahavira had long ear lobes—I don’t
think that long; he was a man not a donkey. Otherwise all donkeys have at
least one quality to help them become a tirthankara . I have seen one man
with ear lobes that long, so it is possible that Mahavira had them—but
twenty-four people!
It is all imagination. Once Mahavira becomes established, then whatsoever
he has becomes a necessary characteristic for anybody else to become a
tirthankara . All tirthankaras have also to be molded again into the same
pattern.
Remember, I don’t have any talents—because religiousness is not a talent.
Music is, poetry is, painting is.
Religiousness is not a talent. It is simply seeing yourself. You may be a
painter, you may be a poet, you may be a musician, you may not be
anybody, but you are ! This is not a talent, this is your existence. And to
experience it is everybody’s birthright.
You can save this living religion only so long as you go on meditating and
you go on creating new flowers, new blossomings—so that you never
become a desert; there is always some oasis. Just a single person amongst

you is enough to keep religiousness alive and prevent anybody from
reducing it to a cult.
But please don’t call it my religion. It has nothing to do with me. It is
simply religiousness. You have to understand, as totally as possible, that
just a pure religiousness has more possibility of surviving, because then you
don’t put any boundaries on it.
I have not put any boundaries on it. And I don’t want to put any boundaries
on you: of discipline, of morality, of virtue. I have given you freedom, and I
have given you individuality, and I have given you just a little taste of
something that is always yours.
You just have to claim it.
Chapter 5
Enlightened Organization Is Organic Harmony
Isn’t organization a necessity for a living religion to survive?
Unfortunately, it is. Some kind of organization is needed, but a problem
arises. Organization in itself is a political entity; organization does not need
religiousness at all. To survive, a living religion needs organization. To
survive, organization needs no religiousness at all. There is the crux of the
whole problem.
There have been in the past efforts to create religion without any
organization, seeing that all the organizations somehow end up in being
anti-religious. For example, the Catholic Church—it is a very solid
organization but only an organization; there is no religion left.
Religiousness is a disturbance as far as the hierarchy of the organization is
concerned. Religiousness is a continuous trouble; religious people will be
trouble.
The Catholic Church has been throwing out all the people who are really
religious from the church because those people will not support this
criminal act of destroying the authentic religion. They will oppose it, they

will rebel against it. But the church has so much authority. The head of the
church, the pope, is a religious head and also a temporal head; the Vatican is
his kingdom, a political nation. Once it was big, vast; now it is only eight
square miles, but still he is the temporal head and the spiritual head.
There are religions where the temporal head is separate and the religious
head is separate, but then there were problems of conflict. The temporal
head has all the power of the army, the law, the state; and the spiritual head
has no temporal power. For example in Hinduism, the Shankaracharya is
only a spiritual head. But that creates this other problem: a continuous
conflict between the state and the religion—and of course the state is
powerful.
You have to remember that the higher a thing, the more fragile it is. The
lower a thing, the more strong it is. Roots are strong, flowers are not;
although roots are meaningless if the flowers disappear—the roots have
meaning only because of the flowers. But the tree is not as stupid as man;
so there is a harmony between the flowers and the roots, there is no conflict.
Flowers represent the spiritual fragrance, and the roots represent the state,
the army and all its power.
The roots can deny food to the flowers and the flowers will die and
disappear within no time. But no tree is so stupid: there is a harmony; the
roots go on supporting the flowers, the leaves, the branches. And it is not
only one-sided. The flowers, the leaves, the branches go on taking rays
from the sun and carbon dioxide from the air, and they go on continuously
sending them to the roots.
It is a communion, there is no question of conflict. But in religion it has
been a problem. If you keep them apart then soon the state starts trying to
control the religion. For example, in England the church is separate but the
queen is really the head of both: of the church and of the state. The church
has its own head but there is a crowned head who is over him. What can the
archbishop of Canterbury do against the queen?
In Russia the situation was the same. The church was separate, the czar was
separate, but the whole power was in the hands of the czar. So it was just

for show that the head of the church crowned the czar as if he was above
the czar. But he knew and everybody knew that this was only ceremonial. In
reality he had to follow the czar and the state, support the czar and the state,
because without the czar, the church would die: it wouldn’t have any
support, financial or otherwise. That’s why Catholics tried to make church
and state, one: to give both powers into the hands of one man so there was
no conflict.
But the trouble is when a man becomes politically powerful, that political
power tends to corrupt him. He may misuse it; it is almost certain that he
will misuse it.
In the first place, if the head has both temporal and spiritual power, then the
people who are spiritual will not make any effort to become the head,
because the spiritual person does not want to get involved in power politics.
Then, only the people who are politically minded become involved in the
organization. They may be in a religious robe, they may be bishops and
cardinals and ministers and they may have studied theology, but they are
not spiritual people. If they had been in the world they would have tried to
become the president or the prime minister; it is just accidental that they are
in the religious robe. Their ambition can be fulfilled here only by becoming
the pope. So they will make every effort to become the pope.
When they have the power they are bound to misuse it. They were never
spiritual in the first place.
Hinduism tried another thing also. If you make one person a spiritual head
there is a possibility that the person is not really spiritual. You may have
erred, because there is no criterion by which to judge, and it cannot be
decided by election because people have no idea what spirituality is. How
are they going to decide who is spiritual? They can only nominate. It cannot
be chosen in an election—if you have an election you bring politics in.
The Catholic pope is elected, so naturally the politically minded cardinals
make every effort to approach all those people—perhaps there are two
hundred cardinals who choose the pope—so there is an undercurrent of
campaign, an election campaign, continuously. Even when there is a pope
the campaign continues because popes don’t live long, for the simple reason

that by the time the person becomes a pope he’s nearabout seventy. So you
can hope that within two, three, four or five years he will be gone.
A Polack is going to be tough—you cannot hope that he will be gone so
easily, he may stay longer. His predecessor was only in office for nine
months—that is more gentlemanly, but who expects a Polack to be a
gentleman? That was more gentlemanly: in nine months the previous pope
disappeared to give an opportunity for another person to become a pope.
But very few people are so generous.
Hinduism tried to ensure that their religion would have many heads; all
would be nominated. But then there is another problem: great confusion.
Hinduism is a great confusion—you can’t even call it one religion. It is a
thousand and one religions together, because there is no central control.
Anybody can gather disciples and can become a head and nobody can
prevent it.
The idea was to give freedom but it turned out to be confusion. Any idiot
can find a few other idiots who are always available everywhere. There are
so many sects in Hinduism; each sect has many sub-sects and each sub-sect
has its own head. They don’t even have a talking relationship with the other
heads of the same religion! They are continually fighting in the courts
because sometimes it happens that two persons claim that they are the head
and if they can give some kind of proof…
One of the most important temples in India for Hindus is in the Himalayas,
Badrinathdham. For almost ten years it has been locked under police
control because the court is unable to decide who the head is, because the
Shankaracharya who died ten years ago wrote two wills. He wrote one will
perhaps twenty, thirty years earlier when he found somebody who was
potentially very capable, and he forgot about the will because he lived so
long. For thirty years he must have kept it somewhere. That man stole the
will.
And when the Shankaracharya was dying he was asked—by that time that
man had left him—so he chose another person and made another will; the
first will could not be found in his papers. Now before the Allahabad High
Court there are two wills from the same man and both persons are claiming

that they are the head. And the temple is one of the richest temples in India
so it is not only a question of being head: it has money, it has power, it has
lands—and it has millions of followers.
But both wills are from the same man. Now, how to decide? The signature
experts have decided that both signatures are from the same man. There are
eyewitnesses for both. But neither Shankaracharya is able to function
because the court goes on postponing, simply for the reason that they don’t
see any way of deciding it. They are simply hoping that one of these two
dies, so that will decide the case. Otherwise it won’t be decided.
Hinduism has so many sects because each person in Hinduism… The caste
system is very strict but as far as thinking is concerned you are absolutely
free. If you are born in the house of a shoemaker you cannot change it, you
will have to remain a shoemaker. No other profession will allow you in.
You cannot move from one caste to another caste; that movement is
absolutely closed.
So for centuries your forefathers and their forefathers and their forefathers
and their forefathers were all making shoes—so you will make shoes. If
they were weaving clothes, you will weave clothes; you will be a weaver. If
they were carpenters, you will be a carpenter. There is no movement as far
as your business, trade, lifestyle is concerned, but as far as thinking is
concerned there is no bondage. You could move from being a follower of
Shankaracharya and you could become a follower of Vallabhacharya,
another spiritual head, a contemporary of Shankaracharya’s and against
Shankaracharya.
Sanskrit is such a language that with just a little logic everything can be
interpreted in many ways. Each word has many meanings; that gives beauty
to it. It gives it poetry because you can play with the word in so many ways,
it does not have a fixed meaning. But it is also dangerous: you cannot write
signs in Sanskrit because then there will be so many interpretations, and
that is what has happened. On the Gita there are one thousand famous
commentaries, to say nothing about non-famous commentaries!—there will
be many thousands more. But there are one thousand very famous
commentaries.

It is thought that anyone who writes a commentary on three of the scriptures
—the Vedas, Badarayana’s Brahmasutras and Krishna’s Shrimad
Bhagavadgita —becomes an acharya , a head: he can create a following.
Now it is not very difficult to write commentaries on these three scriptures.
Many commentaries are available. Shankara wrote one in his own time.
Vallabhacharya wrote differently, a totally different interpretation.
Ramanujacharya wrote one, different again from both. Nimbarkacharya
wrote one different from them all—not only different but quite the opposite.
But the Gita is capable of being looked at from any angle. It gives
tremendous freedom to think, to comment, but it also creates great
confusion.
So 
Hinduism 
is 
not 
a 
religion 
like 
Christianity, 
Judaism 
or
Mohammedanism. In Mohammedanism there is one prophet, one god, one
book—that’s all. In Hinduism there are thousands of scriptures, all of
tremendous value; and on each scripture there are thousands of
commentaries, and every commentary has some value, some insight. Then
there are commentaries upon commentaries… Shankara writes a
commentary on the Gita; then among Shankara’s followers one follower
writes one commentary on Shankara’s commentary, and another follower
writes another commentary on Shankara’s commentary—because the
commentary is also as vulnerable to interpretation as the original. Then
their disciples go on writing more commentaries.
If you just look, Hinduism is like a tree: each branch brings new branches,
then small branches, then more small branches. And they are all creating a
great noise, great controversies—one cannot say what exactly Hinduism is .
Organization has been avoided in a way, but the religion has not been saved
—it has fallen into a confusion. It has not become a cult and a creed; it has
become a confusion.
Seeing this situation, Mahavira’s orthodox followers… They are called
Digambaras because they live naked, their monks live naked. Digambara
means one whose only clothing is the sky—nothing is between him and the
sky. To avoid confusion, to avoid commentaries, to avoid organization, they
simply destroyed all Mahavira’s scriptures.

So Digambaras don’t have any scriptures of Mahavira—a strange act, just
to preserve his teaching. It is given by word of mouth to the disciple but is
not in a book. You cannot sell it in the market; nobody can write a
commentary on it. The teaching goes on silently, transferred from one
generation of monks to another generation of monks. It was a great effort of
tremendous courage to destroy all the scriptures, so you could not print
them. But what happened was that even by transferring it from individual to
individual, there were different versions, because naturally…
You are all listening to me, but if you all go back home and write down
what I have said, do you think you will be reporting the same? Tomorrow
morning you can look at all the notebooks and be surprised that everybody
has got something else, has laid emphasis on something which you have
completely ignored. You have not heard it at all, but somebody else has
heard only that. What you have heard, she has not bothered about.
So even though they tried to avoid written scriptures and remain consistent,
there are different versions. There are only twenty-two naked monks now; I
have met all twenty-two. I was puzzled that they all have different versions
from their teachers, and they are giving a different version to their disciple
who someday will become a naked monk. They are training the disciple,
and they think in this way the purity of the message is preserved.
But I asked them, “Have you ever compared notes with the other twenty-
one?”
They said, “No, that is never done. What my teacher has given to me, I will
give to my chief disciple, and he will give it to his chief disciple.”
But I said, “I have met all twenty-two and you are all saying different
things.” If it was in a book at least there would have been some possibility
to come to some agreement. Now there is no way to come to any
agreement. There are twenty-two religions arising from one source—which
they have destroyed. So now there is nothing to fall back on and check; and
you cannot prove anybody is wrong or anybody is right.
The other sect of Jainas is the Shvetambaras. The name, shvetambara ,
means white-robed; they are not naked, they use white robes. They have

scriptures but they have many sects themselves. And on such small points
there is so much difference that one cannot imagine what will be happening
about spiritual, philosophical things.
They have strange disagreements—about whether Mahavira was married or
not, there is a difference. One sect believes he was not only married, he had
a daughter. The daughter was married—he had a son-in-law, and the
daughter and the son-in-law were both initiated by Mahavira. Not only that,
they believe that the son-in-law slowly became more political, thinking, “I
am the son-in-law of Mahavira…” He must have been hoping that he would
succeed him. But Mahavira simply did not encourage him. It came to such a
point that he rebelled against Mahavira with five hundred other monks and
made a totally different religion.
Now this is so much that it cannot be just invented—and for what? But the
other sect says that he was never married because tirthankaras are not
married. That is part of the definition of a tirthankara , that he remains
unmarried; so how could Mahavira have been married? He was not married.
And to say that he had a child means he had a sexual relationship—that is
an absolutely ugly thing to think of a tirthankara . Then you are doing more
and more harm: the tirthankara’s daughter is married! Now the daughter of
a tirthankara —his blood—thinking of marrying? Impossible!
And worse, you say that the son-in-law rebelled against him. How could
anybody have rebelled against a man like Mahavira—what to say about the
son-in-law!—it is impossible. This whole story is bogus, according to the
other sect. Their scriptures say that he was never married, there was no
question of a daughter, no son-in-law, no rebel.
If on such points, which are factual, there is so much difference, then what
to say about the teaching! On every point there is a difference. To avoid the
differences the orthodox Digambaras destroyed the scriptures—but just
destroying the scriptures won’t help. You have to create a certain
mythology around it. And the mythology is that Mahavira never spoke. So
there is no question of there being any scriptures—he never spoke.

Now the Shvetambaras have the scriptures, sermons of Mahavira on each
subject, detailed instructions for the monks about each special thing: how
he has to sit, how he has to stand up, how he has to walk, how far he can
see. He should look only four feet ahead so he never sees a woman, because
looking four feet ahead, at the most you can see the feet of a woman, that’s
all.
He should walk very slowly, very carefully, so he does not kill any ants or
anything. He should carry a woolen brush with him so that before he sits he
brushes the place. It has to be woolen so that no ant or anything is killed by
it, it is so soft. Such details!—that he has to have three pieces of clothing,
one begging bowl, one brush, one small mattress which he keeps rolled
under his arm. He should not sit on anybody else’s clothes because you
can’t be certain about the vibrations of other people… And Digambaras say
Mahavira never spoke!
What did he do instead of speaking? He had chosen twelve chief disciples
with whom he had a mind-to-mind communication. He didn’t need to speak
to them; it was a silent communication to twelve teachers. Those twelve
teachers were to tell all the other monks what they had heard in Mahavira’s
silence. Now a very complicated affair… And all those twelve didn’t agree,
so from the very beginning there have been twelve versions of Mahavira’s
teachings.
To avoid organization Mahavira said, “Now, there will be no successor to
me.” But that did not make any difference. Yes, there is no one successor to
him, but there are thousands of heads of small sects. They don’t claim to be
successors of Mahavira, they don’t say they are tirthankaras ; they are
teachers of Mahavira’s teaching. But all those teachers are continually in
conflict about everything.
The same happened to Buddha. While he was alive he did not allow what
he was saying to be written down—you were simply to understand him, to
experience him. And your experience and your understanding you shared
with people. Otherwise there was every possibility that people would start
worshipping those books—like Mohammedans worship the Koran,
Christians worship the Bible.

“So it is better not to have my words,” Buddha said to his disciples, “in a
book form.” When he was saying it, of course it was going to be so. But
when he died the disciples were in difficulty because there were so many
people saying different things, something had to be decided—already there
was chaos.
Then three hundred disciples together compiled what Buddha had said. The
compilation was done in a closed place because there was so much conflict
and they did not want people to know that the chief disciples were in
conflict and fighting: “This was not said by Buddha…” So in a closed place
somehow they came to some agreement, through negotiations, following
the middle path: “If two persons are saying two things then come to the
middle and keep that.” But that was a hodgepodge.
Buddha would not be able to recognize that those were his words—those
were three hundred people’s agreement. Now, three hundred people in
disagreement, coming to an agreement—you can imagine what the outcome
will be. Yes, to the world they could then show that they had a scripture, but
those who understand—how can they deceive them? Buddha avoided
making any head of his religion. That created thirty two sects immediately
after his death.
There were other teachers in Buddha and Mahavira’s time too. One was
Sanjay Vilethiputta. He avoided even initiation, he said, “Simply listen to
me. If you feel like doing what I am saying, you do it, but I will not initiate
you. If I initiate you, soon you will create an organization. You will need an
organization to keep all the people who are my disciples together. There are
so many reasons for them to be together—for their security, for their safety,
because they will be persecuted by the other religions. And if they are left
alone in the vast ocean of enemies, they will be destroyed.”
And in India they have a very simple method of destroying anybody. India
is a country of small villages, very small villages, millions of small villages.
In a small village there are only twenty houses; twenty families are living
there. They can destroy anybody by a simple method, a very non-violent
method. They decide that a man is not to be accepted as part of them, so he
cannot be invited to any marriage, to any ceremony.

Nobody will talk with him. He’s not allowed to take water from the village
well. If the river is five miles away, he has to carry his water from there.
When crops are to be cut, nobody is to support him. Otherwise, in a village,
that’s the way: when one person’s crops are ripe, the whole village helps
him to cut the crop. Then somebody else’s are ready and the whole village
helps him. Single-handedly, he will be in immense trouble.
Nobody will talk to him. People should not recognize him on the street,
should not say hello. You will kill the man—and he cannot go anywhere
else because in India people are tethered to their land. Nobody is going to
purchase his land, his house. If he wants to leave he can leave, but where is
he going to go and what he is going to do?
It’s a very easy, very non-violent, but really cruel method; far more cruel
than killing the man. His children will not be playing with other children,
his wife will not be meeting with any other woman. He’s boycotted.
So Sanjay Vilethiputta said, “If I initiate you an organization will be
necessary. I will not give you initiation, then it cannot be known to others
that you are my followers. You just go on living, experiencing, doing what I
have told to you. And if you feel to convey it to somebody, you can convey
it, but there is no question of initiation. So nobody knows that you belong to
Sanjay Vilethiputta.”
But what happened? We don’t have Sanjay Vilethiputta’s scriptures. The
man must have been of immense intelligence because Buddha criticizes
him, Mahavira criticizes him. Otherwise, Mahavira and Buddha would not
criticize a man who had no status. He must have had a status exactly the
same as Buddha and Mahavira. Mahavira does not criticize Buddha, he was
too young. Mahavira was too old; it was below him to criticize Buddha.
It happened to me… It was Gandhi’s one-hundred-year celebration year, a
century was complete; if he had been alive he would have been one hundred
years old. So one year, a whole year of celebrations was made in India. And
I made it a point that for the whole year I would criticize him because that
was the right time. So I spoke all over India, criticizing him everywhere.

The oldest Gandhian was Kaka Kalelkar. He was one of the very early
disciples and by then was the most authoritative person. When he was asked
in New Delhi what he thought about me, he said, “He’s too young, and
youth is bound to be rebellious. When he is my age he will not criticize
Gandhi.” I was in Ahmedabad when I received the message. Someone from
Delhi brought me a newspaper and showed me that this is what he had said.
I said, “My comment is that Kaka Kalelkar has gone senile. If youth is
rebellious and if it is to be decided by age… He has not said anything
against my arguments. He’s indicating my age, that I am saying these things
because I’m too young; he’s not saying anything against what I have said.
Then naturally the simple answer is that he is senile. He’s too old to
understand; he’s lost his brains and he should be in his grave.
“As far as I am concerned, one thing is certain: even in my grave I will
criticize Gandhi because my arguments have nothing to do with my age, no
relevance to my age. Gandhi was against everything that has been invented
after the spinning wheel. I cannot conceive that even if I am three hundred
years old I will support this idea that the spinning wheel should be the last
invention of man, and after that everything is evil!”
Now almost twenty years have passed and I am still of the same opinion.
Gandhi, about certain things, was absolutely fanatic. He wanted the world
to remain at least three thousand years back, stuck there, not to move from
there. And the reason he was giving was absolutely meaningless. The
reason was that at that time people were happy, people were moral, people
were religious, people were spiritual. Now, all these things are wrong.
In Mesopotamia they have found a stone—the whole civilization of
Mesopotamia has disappeared—it is a six thousand year-old stone with
writing on it. If you read it you will think it is from somewhere in today’s
newspaper’s editorial. It says, “Young people are getting lost”—the
generation gap, six thousand years ago—“the young people are disobedient
and don’t listen to their fathers and mothers and elders. This is the age of
degradation”—six thousand years ago!
And it was the age of degradation. Mahavira, Buddha, Krishna, were all
teaching people continually—Mahavira for forty years, Buddha for forty-

two years—and what were they teaching? “Don’t steal, don’t lie, don’t lust
after other people’s women.” Now if people were not doing these things
then Mahavira and Buddha were both insane, completely insane. When
people are not stealing, what is the point of teaching for forty years
continually, “Don’t steal”?
I was in Bhopal sitting in my host’s bedroom, and I saw on the wall a small
notice: “Please don’t spit on the floor.” Strange… I said, “People do?”
He said, “Yes, in Bhopal this is the trouble. Only in Bhopal is this the
trouble: people chew betel leaves and spit them out wherever.” He said,
“You are surprised? You will find this kind of notice in every nice house.”
But this notice is enough proof that people are spitting. Otherwise I have
never seen that notice anywhere in India.
In my university, one day I saw one of the professors spitting betel leaf on
the floor—the pan that Indians go on chewing. I saw him spitting there, just
in front of me. I was sitting alone and he was sitting in another corner and
he just spat by the side of the chair. I went over and asked him, “Are you
from Bhopal?”
He said, “Yes, I have just been transferred from Bhopal.”
I said, “That explains it.” He said, “What?”
I said, “We will now have to keep a small notice here that says, ‘Please
don’t spit on the floor.”‘
He said, “Strange, but it is true that only in Bhopal people spit, and this is
general. And nobody cares about those notices. Notices are there—in fact
they remind you to spit. You may be chewing your pan joyfully and
suddenly you see that board, and the desire to spit arises. They don’t
prevent anybody.”
If Gandhi says everything was moral three thousand years ago, then to
whom was morality being taught? If everything was spiritual, then what
was the need of so many spiritual leaders? If everything was good then why

do you go on remembering only a few good names?—Buddha, Mahavira,
Krishna—that can be counted on your fingers.
If everybody was good, Buddha and Mahavira would have been lost in the
crowd because the whole crowd was good. Just because you remember
these few names shows that they rose above the masses; so high, that even
three thousand years, five thousand years afterwards, you can still see them.
The masses have completely disappeared; there is no description of the
masses at all.
But Gandhi was adamant about technology: the telegraph, the telephone… I
don’t see that the telegraph or the telephone are in any way violent. In fact
these are very non-violent things; they should be supported by non-violent
people. If you don’t have a telephone then you will have to walk down to
the place, and walking may kill a few insects. Or if you drive the car there
then you are going to kill a few small insects on the road—or you may have
an accident, kill somebody or get killed yourself The telephone is saving
you from all this violence.
I don’t see that I can change my argument anytime, because it is a simple
argument. It has nothing to do with my age.
Mahavira did not criticize Buddha. To me that is a criticism of Mahavira. It
was an egoistic attitude to think, “He is too young and I am too established;
he is just starting from scratch—who cares about him?”
But he could not ignore Sanjay Vilethiputta. Neither could Buddha ignore
him, so it seems the man must have been of great influence. We find his
name in the books of his enemies, and we find a few things that he must
have been teaching—that too in the books of his enemies. His books are not
available because there was no disciple to preserve them, no organization to
preserve them.
And we cannot trust what his enemies were saying against him because this
is an old logical strategy: to describe, to destroy, to criticize your enemy,
first you impose a certain doctrine on him which is not really representative
of the person. It may be similar but first you impose a similar doctrine on
the person’s name—knowing perfectly the loopholes because you are

imposing the doctrine—and then criticize it. Then whosoever reads your
book will find your criticism is perfectly right. This has happened to me,
that’s why I know.
One of the great Hindu monks, Karpatri, has written a whole book against
me; and when I saw it I wondered how he managed. Statements that I have
never made, he makes in my name, and then criticizes them. Now, anybody
reading his book will think that he has finished me completely. He has not
even touched me.
His secretary has written the introduction to the book, and seems to be an
intelligent man because in that introduction he says, “We are obliged to
Osho because he created this opportunity and the challenge for all those
who think to reconsider everything and not just to accept anything without
reconsidering it.”
The secretary is a follower of Karpatri, so he thanks Karpatri for doing a
great job in accepting the challenge of Osho and criticizing him. He came
personally to give me the book. I looked in it here and there and I asked
him, “You are the secretary to Karpatri”—he was a Hindu sannyasin
himself—“Have you not noticed that these statements are not mine? Most
probably the book was dictated to you.”
He said, “I was afraid that you were going to say that.”
I just looked here and there in the book and I told him, “This statement is
not mine. Not only is it not mine, it is contrary to me, absolutely against my
statements. You are an educated person: how did you allow it to happen?
You should have prevented it, because this book is absolutely false and
whosoever reads it will have a totally wrong concept of me.”
So you cannot trust these people—because I have compared what Buddha
said about Sanjay Vilethiputta and what Mahavira says about him is
something else. Buddha quotes Sanjay Vilethiputta’s philosophy differently,
Mahavira differently. That shows certainly that nobody is representing the
other person accurately. That is dishonesty. The honest person should first
state the other person’s argument in its totality, in its full strength, and then
he should criticize it.

But without an organization Sanjay Vilethiputta is completely lost—we
don’t have anything of his to compare. And we don’t have any disciple’s
notes because he never initiated anyone. So perhaps within one or two
generations the thing must have disappeared—and the man’s contribution
must have been of immense value.
Krishnamurti is doing exactly what Sanjay Vilethiputta did. He abandoned
the organization and for almost sixty years he has been trying to help people
individually to understand—but nothing has happened; he’s the most
frustrated master ever. And now at the age of eighty-five he creates the
Krishnamurti Foundation in England. This is the experience of sixty years
—that he understands that the moment he dies there will be nobody even to
preserve his words. What to say about his experience—even his words will
not be there.
What is happening around me is totally different from what has been done
up to now, because nothing has been successful; in one way or another
every effort has failed.
Now the effort around me is not to create an organization like the Catholics
because then the whole power becomes concentrated in one person—and
that is dangerous. That creates ambition in others to reach to the highest
post. They forget about spirituality, growth. Then their whole effort is how
to become the pope. Deep down that desire… So it becomes another world,
an other-worldly politics. And all the power in one person’s hand is always
dangerous.
Around me the effort from the very beginning has been to decentralize
power. So around me many parallel organizations are slowly being created,
and each organization is autonomous, functioning in one direction.
For example, a foundation has been created that will be looking after my
words and other affairs. An academy, another organization, will be purely
esoteric. For the academy I have created three circles of people. They will
be the academy; they will have the whole spiritual power in my physical
absence. It will have all the best, the most intelligent people in there. Their
combined intelligence will be enough—a power unto itself.

Organization cannot be avoided. We just have to be a little more
sophisticated and more scientific and more mathematical about it. We have
to use it rather than being used by it. So I am not against organization, but
we can learn from the past. Whatsoever has happened in the past we can
avoid. And we can do something totally new which has never been done.
And if you can see all the possibilities which destroy the authentic religious
phenomenon… Before they get hold of my movement I am going to finish
all those possibilities. My people can have a totally different organization.
That promise you can always remember: I will not leave you under a fascist
regime.
In the past what has happened? These people created their organizations at
the very last moment when they were dying; or mostly the organizations
were created after the founders were dead, because when the founder was
alive things were going perfectly well, so who bothered about it. But when
the founder was dead, immediately the need…his absence was there. And it
was such a big emptiness that it was impossible for people to connect. They
had connected with the founder, but they had no interconnection amongst
themselves.
And that’s really what organization is. The word is very meaningful; it
comes from organ . Your hand is your organ, your leg is your organ; your
nose, your eyes—these are your organs. And your whole body is the
organization. And they’re all functioning in immense harmony.
How many parts you have—and they’re all functioning in harmony; you are
not even aware of it. Everything is going on so silently that scientists say
that if we were to make such a mechanism that works so silently and does
all the work that the body does, we would need at least a one square mile
area to make it in the factory.
Even today it is not possible to turn bread into blood—how your body does
it is an everyday miracle. Millions of living cells are within you; you are
almost a city. There are seven million living cells, perhaps having a certain
small brain of their own, because their work is so intelligent you cannot say
they don’t have any brain.

Everything is being shifted, is being supplied to the place where it is
needed. Care is even being taken by those small cells inside you so that the
nourishment should reach first to the parts which are most essential. Your
brain gets the nourishment first, the legs can wait a little.
But if just for few minutes—I think six minutes—your brain does not get
oxygen, it starts disintegrating. So the first thing is—and how these small
cells are doing and deciding it is a mystery—oxygen should reach to the
brain. When the brain’s need is fulfilled, then second-grade organs, third-
grade organs, fourth-grade organs… That way it should move.
You are a city of seven million living beings. This is an organization, and
this is what it should be. All our separate organs should be connected,
helping each other, remembering where help is needed more, and first; and
remembering that your whole function is to be enlightened, so the torch of
enlightenment remains burning. There is no gap. And I’m taking every care
that there will be no gap.
Bodhidharma will feel jealous of me!
Chapter 6
Personality: the Carbon Cop-out
Why were you so mischievous in your childhood?
Do you think I am different? Not a bit. I am still the same. I did not allow
my childhood to be spoiled by anybody. And what you think of as
mischievous, I have never thought about it in that way. Even today I don’t
think that anything I have ever done was a mischief. I had my reasons, and
very valid reasons.
For example: the first day I entered high school from my middle school…
In high school they used to have a prayer at the beginning of the day. It was
a very famous song of Mirza Iqbal, who was one of the greatest Urdu poets
of this age. As far as the language is concerned, it is certainly a great piece
of art, but the philosophy behind it is ugly. The song says: “My country, my

nation, is the best of all the nations. My country is a beautiful garden and
we are nightingales in this garden…” And that’s the way it goes on.
I said to the principal who was standing in front of the two thousand
students and fifty teachers, “I will not participate in this prayer because to
me this is absolute rubbish. Every country thinks of itself in the same way
and every country has its ego in it.
“You ask the Chinese, you ask the Japanese, you ask the Germans, you ask
the English, you ask anybody—they all think the same. So what Iqbal has
written is simply rubbish as far as the philosophical background is
concerned. And I am against the very concept of “nation.” The world is
one; I cannot say that my country is the best of all the countries.
“And I don’t even see the reason for singing the song. It is not only that I
am against nationalism, the song is untrue too, because what do you have?
—poverty, slavery, starvation, sicknesses, increasing population and
increasing problems. And you call this our garden and we are its
nightingales! I don’t see a single nightingale anywhere! These fifty teachers
are here; can anybody raise his hand and say, ‘I am a nightingale’? Let him
sing, and let us see! These two thousand students are here; can anyone say
it? Look at these poor students.”
And they used to come from faraway villages, miles every day, from at least
a twenty mile radius around the city, because there was no other high school
except this. “They walk, they come utterly tired, they are hungry. And I
have seen what they bring with them: just dry bread, not even buttered, and
a little piece of salt. That’s all that they bring every day and every day they
eat it.
“These are your trees, this is your garden? So factually also it is not right.
And I don’t care whether Iqbal is a Nobel prize-winning poet or not. I don’t
care. It does not make me feel like singing this song; in every way uttering
a lie.”
The principal was so annoyed and so irritated that he could not speak for
anger; he became almost red. Trembling, he went into his office and
brought out his cane which was very famous—but he rarely used it. He told

me to put both my hands in front of him, and he said, “This is my answer,
and remember it.”
I said, “These are my hands. You can beat my hands or my whole body if
you want, but before you start, remember that from here I am going directly
to the police station, because this is legally prohibited. Both you and your
cane will be behind bars.”
It was illegal to beat any student, but nobody cared. Still today, in India,
students are beaten. And the law that students should not be physically
beaten has existed for at least fifty years. So I said, “You decide. Here are
my hands, this is your cane; you are here. And remember, these two
thousand students are eyewitnesses, fifty teachers are eyewitnesses, and you
will leave your signature on my hands. Leave it there! If you have any guts,
beat me.”
I can remember even today that he remained almost like a statue. The cane
fell from his hand. He just turned back and went into his office. I told all the
students, “Now you need not be worried; we are finished with this song.
Unless they find something reasonable, we will simply be standing here for
ten minutes in silence.”
Now, do you call that mischief? It can be called mischief, and it was
mischief in the eyes of my principal. He reported to my father that I had
misbehaved.
I told my father, “You have to come with me. He has misbehaved. He
should have answered me, told me that I was wrong. He should have
convinced me that the song is right. Instead of that, he brought his cane to
beat me. Is that an argument? Is that right behavior? Who has done the
mischief, he or I? And then he had no guts even to beat me. I gave him the
challenge; my hands were before him. I was ready to take as many beatings
as he wanted, but I told him that I would go directly to the police station
which is not far away from the high school, and that soon he would be
behind bars because beating is illegal. Now who has misbehaved?”
My father said, “Forget about it.”

I said, “I cannot forget about it. You have to come with me. It has to be
decided—because the man has some nerve to tell you that I was
mischievous, that I was misbehaving, that I insulted him before the whole
school, all the teachers and all the students. You have to come with me.”
Now, my father said, “Forgive me—perhaps you are right.”
I said, “No perhaps—if you don’t come with me, I will drag that principal
here.”
So I had to take my father, and he had to follow, persuading me all the way:
“Leave it. It is not such a big thing; he simply mentioned by the way that
you misbehaved.”
I said, “That is not the question. He has to say it in front of me. This is
backbiting. He is mischievous.”
And when the principal saw that I was coming with my father, he again
became afraid that there was, it seemed, some more trouble. And I said to
him, “Now you tell my father what I have done, and what you have done:
saying behind my back to my father that I have been misbehaving, doing
mischief, insulting you before the whole school. Repeat it!—because I don’t
agree with any of it.
“You have insulted me by not answering my argument. Not only that, you
wanted to beat me. Not only that, you are a coward: you could not even beat
me. Now, this is very slimy, that you go around and tell my father. You
prove it—that it was mischief.
“In fact, all the nations that have been proclaiming themselves the best
nation in the world are mischievous. Their mischief has accounted for
millions of lives; the whole of history is full of it, and still we go on doing
the same thing.
“Small children are being told to repeat every day something which is
absolute nonsense, and unrealistic too. There is no fact supporting it. A
country which has been a slave for two thousand years cannot say, ‘In the

whole world we are the best’—the best slaves, or what? A country which is
ninety percent poor, where one meal is difficult…
“There are days when millions of people in India sleep only by drinking
water, just to keep the feeling that the stomach is full. This is the best
country in the world!—whom are you trying to befool? These children will
become conditioned to the idea. This is a strategy of the politicians: that
tomorrow these children will become soldiers, and they will die for the
‘best country of the world,’ not even knowing that this is not true.
“And even if it is factual, then too it is egoistic, and it should not be a
prayer. Accepting, just for the sake of argument, that it is true—that one
country is the best in the world, the richest, the most well-educated, well-
cultured, has everything that is needed so all the facts support it—still I say
such a prayer is wrong, because a prayer should not be ego-fulfilling, a
prayer should be ego-destroying.”
The principal said to me, “Forgive me, and please forget it, and I hope that
we will never come into any conflict again.”
I said, “That depends on you. If you behave, and you promise to behave,
perhaps the situation may not arise. Was it not possible for you to accept my
argument humbly?—because it was true. Do you think that would have
been an insult to you? It would have raised your status before the whole
school, that you are a man of some dignity, that you do not hesitate even to
respect the right argument from a child, that you respect intelligence.
“You missed that opportunity; you brought your cane. And then again you
created trouble for yourself; you gave me another chance to prove you are a
coward. You are unintelligent, you have no respect for intelligence or for a
child—and you are a coward: you should have beaten me! What would it
matter if you were behind bars?—it was a question of your principles. If
you were right, then it would have been good to be behind bars. But be
right, and fight for it!”
For three years he avoided me like anything. But I will not say it was
mischief although it will appear so. I don’t see a single point supporting the
idea that it was mischief.

For three years, while I was in the high school, we continued the silence.
The ten minutes’ silence continued instead of prayer, because they could
not come up with something better. Whatsoever they brought up I was
capable of finding faults with. And without my approval, I was not going to
allow it. So finally they decided, “Let this boy be gone from here, then…”
And the day I left the school and went to the university…
I came back in some holiday and I went there to see what was happening:
and the children were repeating the same song again. I went to the principal
and I said, “I have just come to check. It has not reached your mind at all—
again you started the same thing.”
But he said, “Now please leave us alone. I was afraid that if you failed, then
you would be here for one more year. I was praying for you to pass. I had
told all the teachers to support you, to help you so that you pass. Any way
you should not fail, otherwise one more year… But now, leave us alone.”
I said, “I will not be coming again and again. I have just come to check and
to see whether you have any mind or not, and you seem to be absolutely
unintelligent. You are a postgraduate in science, and that too in mathematics
—which is just an extension of logic—but you can’t understand a simple
thing. I will not be coming here because now I am occupied in the
university. There are so many problems there, I cannot take care of your
school.”
One of my high school teachers was a certain Mr. Nigam; he used to teach
chemistry. I knew him, the whole city knew about him, but he was such an
angry, violent and idiotic man that nobody raised a voice against him. He
killed his wife, but I was the only witness.
I was a witness because I was sitting in a mango tree. The mangoes were
getting ripe, and it was nobody’s tree so I was not stealing. In India, mango
trees are planted along the roads. They give shade and they give the most
delicious fruit also; so, many people out of charity plant mango trees.
Municipal committees, corporations, plant mango trees. So it was a public
tree and nobody could say to me, “You are stealing”—or anything.

But this mango tree was just by the side of this Mr. Nigam’s compound,
outside his compound, and he was not aware that somebody was sitting in
the tree. It was getting a little dark, the sun was almost gone, and I saw him
dragging his wife along. He pushed the wife into the well—there was a well
in his garden—and then he started shouting, “My wife has fallen into the
well!”
Neighbors gathered. I also came down, but I thought it better first to inquire
of my father, “Do I have to get involved in this or not?—because I am the
only witness that this man pushed his wife.”
My father said, “In the first place, what were you doing there?”
I said, “I was just picking a few mangoes. Even if it is a crime, it is not such
a crime that a man can throw his wife down a well and I should remain
silent. If there is some punishment for it, I am ready. Just two mangoes I
have taken. If somebody wants the price, you give the price, but just
suggest to me what I am supposed to do. Should I speak?—because that
man is trying to prove that his wife fell.”
And his wife died—the well was very deep. My city is such that half the
city is on top of a hill, and the other half is in the valley. Cycling is very
difficult in my city. You can come down very easily, but going up you have
to walk with your bicycle, you cannot go on the cycle. Cycle rickshaws are
not yet possible because of this situation. So half is on top of the hill, and it
is a very plain hill—then suddenly the slope.
The middle city is on the slope, and the other half, the main city, is in the
valley—the main market and everything. So in the valley wells are very
easy to make. You can dig a well alone, there is not much of a problem: six,
eight feet, that’s enough, and you reach the water because the river is just
by the side. But on the top, you have to go down at least sixty feet.
This Mr. Nigam used to live on the top, so the well was very deep, sixty feet
deep, and then the water was very deep.
By the time people gathered, his wife had died. Perhaps she died before she
reached the water. Sixty feet falling in the well… She must have hit

something. The well was not very big, so she must have hit the sides,
because when her body was brought up, it was bleeding from many places.
Her head and body were bruised and bloody, so she must have died on the
way down—or perhaps the little bit of life that remained was finished when
she reached the water.
Now this man, when on the first day he came to teach… The first thing is
the attendance; so everybody who is present says, “Yes, sir,” or “Present,
sir,” and for whoever is not present, nobody speaks, so he is marked not
present. I said, “Yes, mister.”
He looked at me and he said, “Don’t you hear everybody saying ‘Yes, sir’?
—and you say ‘Yes, mister.’ Don’t you have any respect for a teacher?”
I said, “I have respect for people who are respectable. I know you perfectly
well. The day your wife was pushed into the well, I was sitting in the
mango tree in front of your house. I can still open up the case. And you
want me to call you ‘sir’?
“There is a student in the class who lives by the house of the prostitute. You
visit that prostitute almost every day. Do you want me to call out the name
of the boy, and ask him to stand up and say that he sees you every day in the
prostitute’s house? There is a boy here whose father sells wine and all kinds
of drugs. He can stand up for me and tell you what kind of things you go on
purchasing from his father. And still you want me to call you ‘sir’?”
Now certainly it looks like mischief, but not to me. He was very angry and
annoyed. He took me to the principal, and the principal said, “It is better
you settle it yourself.”
But he said, “No. This boy is going to spoil the whole class. He was saying
to the class, ‘From tomorrow nobody calls him ‘sir’.’”
I said to the principal, “These are the reasons; now you tell me whether we
have to call this man ‘sir’. As far as I am concerned, even calling him
‘mister’ is too much. If he does not agree to ‘mister’, then I am going to
find something worse.”

The principal took him aside and said, “You had better settle for ‘mister’. It
is not a bad word, it is perfectly respectable. There is no harm, because
what he is saying… And he has proofs. And what he is saying is that he is
an eyewitness that you pushed your wife. He is dangerous, he can go to the
police and you may be in trouble. And he is not afraid of your violence or
anything which your neighborhood is afraid of.”
That man settled for “mister.” The whole class called him that. And then I
started spreading it into his other classes, “You have to call this man
‘mister’.” Finally he resigned. Seeing that the whole school knew about
everything that I had been saying, he resigned; not only resigned, he left the
city and moved to another town.
It can be thought of as mischief, but I don’t think it is mischief. I had valid
reasons and still I will stand by what I did; it was perfectly right. In fact this
man should have been thrown out of the school long before, thrown out of
the city long before. And it was a good non-violent strategy that I applied.
He left on his own. I was the only person at the station to say good-bye to
him. And I can still remember the way he looked at me as if he wanted to
kill me, then and there. But the train moved, and I went on waving to him; I
went on running up to the end of the platform. And I said, “Don’t be
worried. I will be coming to visit sometime, wherever you are.”
This world, from a child’s standpoint, looks very different. You will have to
understand it from a child’s standpoint because his standpoint is non-
political, fearless, innocent. He sees things as they are. And if every child is
allowed to behave according to his understanding, you will see that every
child proves to be mischievous. It is your attitude that interprets it as a
mischievous act because you are not thinking from an innocent vision.
It continued in the university. One of my vice-chancellors was Doctor
Tripathi, a very famous historian. He was a professor of history at Oxford,
and then he became vice-chancellor at Sagar University; an old man, a
world-famous authority on history. And the first address that he gave to the
whole university was on the birthday of Buddha.

He said with great feeling, “I always think that if I had been born in
Buddha’s time, I would have gone and sat at his feet and tried to understand
the wisdom, the light, the vision that this man has brought into the world.”
I was there. I stood up and said, “Wait a minute, please.”
He said, “Have I said anything wrong?”
I said, “Certainly. Have you been to Krishnamurti? You have lived in
England; Krishnamurti is often in England—have you been to this man’s
feet to learn the great wisdom, the vision?”
He said, “No, I haven’t.”
“Then,” I said, “you would not have gone to Buddha either. Did you go to
Raman Maharishi?”—who had just died a few years before. “He was alive
your whole life, and he was known all over the world as one of the most
enlightened masters ever. And he was here in India, just living in one place,
Arunachal. He never moved from one small hill in the south, he always
remained there, his whole life.
“He went there when he was seventeen, and he died there; he must have
been eighty-five. He never left, all these seventy years. He was just living
on that small hill. From all the world over people were coming to him. Did
you go there?”
He said, “No.”
I said, “Then can you repeat that you would have gone to Buddha? I can say
with certainty that this is mere oratory. You are befooling others, you are
befooling yourself. You have to accept the fact that you would not have
gone. Why have you not gone to Raman, to Krishnamurti, to Meher Baba?
These people were available your whole life.
“But you think yourself a far higher authority, more and better educated
than these three people. You have wisdom, you have vision, you have light
—what can these people give you? I say to you with absolute certainty, you
would not have gone to Buddha. Do you agree with me or not?”

There was silence for a moment, such silence as rarely happens in a
university convocation hall, pin drop silence. And the man said, “Perhaps
the boy is right. In fact I have no right to speak on Buddha because I have
never been interested in enlightenment, nirvana, meditation. And he is right
that I would not have gone to Buddha. For what?—because my interest is
not in these things. And he has pointed out clearly that I know three persons
—these three persons are well-known as enlightened masters—but I have
not gone. And they have been very close to me.
“Krishnamurti has been very close; just an hour’s drive and I could have
seen him many times. I have been speaking in Chennai University, from
where Arunachal is only a few hours’ drive. I have been speaking in Pune
University, and Meher Baba lives there in Pune—but I have not bothered.”
He apologized to me before the whole university and asked me to come
sometime to his home; he would like to talk with me. I will say this man
was at least intelligent; he was not annoyed.
My professors told me, “This is not right, particularly for you, because your
scholarship depends on him. He can cancel your scholarship, and he has
every opportunity in many ways to harm you, because he will appoint those
who are going to be your examiners. He will appoint the one who is going
to take your verbal examination. And your future… After your MA, he is
the person who will decide whether to give you a research scholarship or
not.”
I said, “Don’t be worried about anything. I have taken care of everything
today.”
They said, “By doing this mischief?”
I said, “The man has offered an apology and still you are calling it a
mischief?”
They said, “Yes, a disturbance in a public place making him look stupid.”
I said, “I was not trying to make him look stupid, and he proved that he is
not stupid. And I have asked many students: they all said that their respect
for him in their eyes has increased because he was ready to accept that what

he had said was just oratory. You can go on sometimes carried away by
words; one word takes you to another word.
“People who have been speaking their whole life—professors, teachers—go
on saying things which they don’t mean. You have to pull them back:
‘Where are you going?’ Just one word leads to another word, that word
leads to another word… You have to pull them back. Of course pulling on
anybody’s leg looks like mischief, but it was not. And he has not accepted it
as mischief.”
I went to him, and he said, “You have done something great to me. In my
whole life nobody has ever disturbed me while I was speaking. And you
disturbed me on such a point that I had no way to deny you; and I loved you
for the simple reason that you had the courage. Whatever you need and
whenever you need it, always remember I am here. Just let me be informed
about it and every facility, everything that is in my power will be available
to you.”
And I didn’t have to say anything to him. He, without my asking, made
arrangements that from the university cafeteria I should receive a free pass
for two years, and that my scholarship should be granted. And you will be
surprised that before deciding on my examiners, he inquired of me, “Do
you have any preference for whom you would like?”
I said, “No, when you are deciding I know that you will decide on the best
people. I would like the best, the topmost people. So don’t think whether
they will pass me or fail me, give me better marks or not such good marks;
that is absolutely irrelevant to me. Choose the best in the whole country.”
He chose the best. And strangely, it turned out to be very favorable. One of
the professors that he chose for Indian philosophy, the best authority, was
Doctor Ranade of Allahabad University. On Indian philosophy, he was the
best authority. But nobody used to choose him as an examiner because he
had rarely passed anybody. He would find so many faults, and he could not
be challenged; he was the last person to be challenged. And almost all the
professors of Indian philosophy in India were his disciples. He was the
oldest man, retired. But Doctor Tripathi chose him, and asked him as a
special favor, because he was old and retired by then, “You have to.”

A strange thing happened—and if you trust life, strange things go on
happening. He gave me ninety-nine percent out of a hundred. He wrote a
special note on the paper that he was not giving a hundred percent because
that would look a little too much; that’s why he had cut the one percent,
“But the paper deserves one hundred percent. I am a miser,” he wrote on his
note.
I read the note; Tripathi showed it to me saying, “Just look at this note: ‘I
am a miser, I have never gone above fifty in my whole life; the best I have
given is fifty percent.’”
But what appealed to him were my strange answers, that he had never
received before. And that was his whole life’s effort—that a student of
philosophy should not be like a parrot, just repeating what is written in the
textbook. The moment he would see that it was just a textbook thing, he
was no longer interested in it.
He was a thinker and he wanted you to say something new. And with me
the problem was I had no idea of the textbooks, so anything that I was
writing could not be from the textbooks—that much was certain. And he
loved it for the simple reason that I am not bookish. I answered on my own.
He appointed, for my viva voce, a Mohammedan professor of Allahabad
University. He was thought to be a very strict man. And even Doctor
Tripathi told me, “He is a very strict man, so be careful.”
I said to him, “I am always careful whether the man is strict or not. I don’t
care about the man, I simply am careful. The man is not the point: even if
there is nobody in the room, I am still careful.”
He said, “I would love to be present and see it because I have heard about
this man that he is really hard.” So he came. That was very rare. The head
of my department was there, the vice-chancellor was there, and Doctor
Tripathi. He asked special permission from the Mohammedan professor, Sir
Saiyad, “Can I be present? I just want to see this, because you are known as
the hardest examiner, and I know this boy—he is also, in his way, as hard as
you are. So I want to see what happens.”

And my professor, Doctor S.K. Saxena, who loved me so much, just like a
son, and cared for me in every possible way… He would even go out of his
way to take care of me. For example every morning when the examinations
were on, he would come to the university, to my hostel room, to pick me up
in his car and leave me in the examination hall, because he was not certain
—I may go, I may not go. So for those few days while the examinations
were on… And it was very difficult for him to get up that early.
He lived four, five miles away from the hostel, and he was a man who loved
drinking, sleeping late. His classes never began before one o’clock in the
afternoon because only by that time was he ready. But to pick me up,
because the examination started at seven-thirty, at seven exactly he was in
front of my room. I asked him, “Why do you waste thirty minutes?—
because from here it is just a one-minute drive to the examination hall.”
He said, “These thirty minutes are so that if you are not here then I can find
where you are—because I am not certain about you. Once you are inside
the hall and the door is closed, then I take a deep breath of relief, that now
you will do something, and we will see what happens.”
So Doctor Tripathi was there, and he was continually hitting my leg,
reminding me that that man was really strict. So I asked Sir Saiyad, “One
thing: first prevent my professor, who is hitting my leg again and again,
telling me not to be outrageous, not to be in any way mischievous. He told
me before, ‘Whenever I hit your leg, that means you are going astray, and
this will be difficult.’ So please first stop this man. This is a strange
situation that somebody is being examined and somebody else is hitting his
leg. This is inconvenient. What do you think?”
He said, “Certainly this is inconvenient,” but he laughed.
And I said, “My vice-chancellor has told me the same: ‘Be very careful.’
But I can’t be more careful than I am. Just start!”
He asked me a simple question, and my professor thought my answer was
mischievous. The vice-chancellor thought it was mischievous, because I
destroyed the whole thing. He asked, “What is Indian philosophy?”

I told him, “In the first place philosophy is only philosophy. It cannot be
Indian, Chinese, German, Japanese—philosophy is simply philosophy.
What are you asking? Philosophy is philosophizing; whether a man
philosophizes in Greece or in India or in Jerusalem, what difference does it
make? Geography has no impact; nor have the boundaries of a nation any
impact on philosophy. So first drop that word Indian , which is wrong. Ask
me simply, ‘What is philosophy?’ You please drop it and ask the question
again.”
The man looked at my vice-chancellor and he said, “You are right; the
student is also hard! He has a point, but now it will be difficult for me to ask
any questions because I know he will make a mockery of my questions.” So
he said, “I accept! What is philosophy?—because that question you have
put yourself.”
I said to him, “It is strange that you have been a professor of philosophy for
many years and you don’t know what philosophy is. I really cannot believe
it.” And the interview was finished.
He said to Doctor Tripathi, “Don’t unnecessarily let me be harassed by this
student. He will simply harass me.” And to me he said, “You have passed.
You needn’t be worried about passing.”
I said, “I am never worried about that; about that these two persons are
worried. They somehow are forcing me to pass; I am trying my best to undo
what they are trying to do, but they are pushing hard.”
If you take anything as mischief, you have a certain prejudice. Once you
understand that whatsoever I have done in my life… It may not be part of
the formal behavior, it may not be the accepted etiquette, but then you are
taking your standpoint from a certain prejudice.
All things—and so many things have happened in such a small life that
sometimes I wonder why so many things happened.
They happened simply because I was always ready to jump into anything,
never thinking twice what the consequences would be.

I had won my first inter-university debate; it was an all-India debate, and I
had come first and brought the shield to my university. The professor in
charge, Indrabahadur Khare, was a poet and a good man, but a very proper
gentleman, everything closed. Buttons, coat, everything had to be proper—
and I was very unproper.
He took me to a photo studio. Because I had won the shield for the all-India
competition, the newspapers needed a picture, so he took me. For my whole
university career I was wearing a kurta, a kind of robe without any buttons
at all. So when I stood there by the shield, Indrabahadur said to me, “Wait,
where are your buttons?”
I said, “I have never used buttons. I love the air, I enjoy it—why buttons?”
And he was completely closed up with so many buttons. He was using a
Mohammedan sherwani , which is the national dress in India, a long coat
with many buttons; even the collar is closed with a button.
So he said, “But without buttons, this picture will be reprinted in all the
newspapers; I cannot allow this.”
I said, “I cannot allow buttons. I can bring the buttons, and you can take a
picture of the buttons for the copy—I have no objection. I have no interest
in the picture. Has it to be my picture—or your picture? You stand up, you
are absolutely proper; the picture will look good. But if you want my
picture, it has to be without buttons, because I have lived without buttons
for almost four years.
“I cannot change just for the picture—that will be phony, a lie. And how
can I put on buttons, because there are no holes on the other side; even if I
want to put on buttons, it will need holes and I don’t want to destroy my
dress at all. So please forgive me—either my picture has to be without
buttons, or it is not going to be at all.”
He said, “But this is mischievous of you.”
I said, “It is not mischievous of me, it is too much of a mannerism on your
part. And who are you to decide? In these four years, every professor has
tried to insist that I should use buttons, and I have asked them, ‘Where in

the university code is it written that you should have buttons? Just show me
the law, bylaw, any amendment, anything that proves that you should have
buttons, and I will have buttons.’ But nobody has thought about buttons,
that this question will arise one day, that you should have it printed in the
university code. So they all became silent to show that it’s okay, nothing
can be done about it.”
I used to walk in an Indian sandal which is made of wood. It has been used
by sannyasins for centuries, almost ten thousand years or perhaps longer. A
wooden sandal, because it avoids any kind of leather, which is bound to be
coming from an animal who maybe has been killed, killed only for this
purpose—and the best leather comes from very young children of animals.
So sannyasins have been avoiding that, and using a wooden sandal. But it
makes so much noise when the sannyasin walks, you can hear from almost
half a mile away that he is coming. And on a cement road or walking on the
verandah in the university, the whole university knows.
The whole university used to know me, know that I was coming or going;
there was no need to see me, just my sandals were enough. Now, one of my
professors, Awasthi, a very loving man asked me, “Why do you choose
strange things? Now, there are thousands of students, hundreds of
professors—and I have been to many universities as a professor—but I have
never come across a single student using wooden sandals and disturbing the
whole university.”
I said, “That’s not right. If you are disturbed that means you don’t have any
control of your own mind. My wooden sandals, what can they do to you?
Otherwise there are so many noises around, you will be continually
disturbed: the car is passing by, the bus is passing by, somebody’s horn—
and in India you have continually…
Driving in America I have not used the horn at all, but in India you have to
use it every minute. There is no other way, otherwise you cannot move: a
cow is standing there, a buffalo is standing there, a few people are standing
and gossiping in the middle of the road… Particularly in places like
Varanasi, where people go on leaving bulls as a religious thing—it is
thought to be a great virtue.

The bull is Shiva’s devotee, his symbol. So in a Shiva temple you will find
a bull outside the temple. Shiva is inside, and the bull is sitting outside. He
is Shiva’s bodyguard, servant, devotee—everything. And whenever Shiva
wants to move around, he rides on the bull.
So it has become a convention for hundreds of years that people bring bulls
and leave them in Varanasi, because Varanasi is thought to be Shiva’s city.
And according to Hindu mythology it is the ancientmost city in the world.
Perhaps it is true; it seems to be. The whole structure of the city,
particularly the old city, seems to be really ancient.
So in Varanasi there are thousands of bulls, and to feed those bulls is a
religious thing. A man may be dying, starving, but you will not bother
about him: the bull has to be fed. If a bull comes to a vegetable shop and
starts eating you cannot prevent him. No, he has a license from Shiva, he
has simply to be allowed. When he goes, he goes. You cannot disturb him.
He can eat sweets in a sweet shop, he can eat vegetables, fruits, whatsoever
he wants; and he is completely free.
The only free being in India is the bull, particularly in Varanasi.
And nobody can beat the bull, nobody can do any harm to him. In Varanasi
it was such a trouble. You go on honking the horn, but the bull does not care
—and the bull is sitting just in front of your car. Unless you get out, push
him, persuade him to move… And they are well fed because they are free,
nobody can prevent them. Just to travel a small distance you have to start
one hour earlier, because on the way everything is possible.
I used to speak in the Theosophical Society in Varanasi, and the place
where I stayed was just five minutes’ walk away. But it took one hour to
drive, so I told my host, “It is better if we can walk and reach there without
this trouble and without troubling so many of Shiva’s devotees—because
they are everywhere and they are resting and sitting. They have no other
work—eating, walking, sitting, fighting.”
I told Awasthi, “All these disturbances are going on around you.”

He said, “I know all those disturbances are going on, but still your sandal
stands separate. It is impossible to forget that you are around, even in all
this noise. Why have you chosen this sandal? Just to annoy people, or…?”
I said, “No, not to annoy anybody. This keeps me alert. And my feeling is
that they were not chosen to avoid leather, because Hindus are not against
killing animals; they sacrificed animals. But they have chosen it. Jainas,
who are vegetarians—non-violent, against sacrifice—they have not chosen
even the wooden sandal. They walk without anything, just naked feet;
Buddhists also, just naked feet. So this reasoning, that wooden sandals have
been chosen so that leather can be avoided, is nonsense—because you see
the same sannyasin sitting on the leather of a lion. That is the traditional
seat for a Hindu monk: the full leather of a lion, even with the head!
“So for a man who is sitting on the lion’s leather, or a tiger’s leather or a
deer’s leather, what problem has he to make shoes? That reason is not
applicable. My reason is that when you walk on a wooden sandal you
cannot fall asleep once. You can walk miles, you cannot fall asleep; that
noise will keep you continually waking up, like an alarm. And it does keep
you alert.
“If you start watching it, observing it, it is far better than breathing and
watching the breath, because breath is a subtle thing, so you will miss it
very soon: within a few seconds your mind will wander. But that click-
clock, click-clock, click-clock hits you continually, as if somebody is hitting
you on your head—click-clock, click-clock… How can you go astray? It
has been of immense help for meditation.”
Awasthi said, “You are simply impossible. It is just mischief, but you are
now making a philosophy out of it.
I still say that I was not making a philosophy out it. It was not mischief If
somebody is disturbed, that simply means that the man is not very centered.
Otherwise somebody walking on the wooden sandal… If you are disturbed,
then you will be disturbed by anything: a dog will start barking, a crow may
be sitting on the roof calling you; you will be disturbed by anything.
Sometimes, if there is nothing happening, that may disturb you: “What is
the matter?—no noise, nothing is happening?”

But he insisted, “Whatsoever you say, I know that this is mischief.”
I said, “If you already know, then there is no question of disputing the fact.
I have explained it to you. If you want to refute me, I can bring a pair for
you; I have a spare pair. Just start and you’ll see.”
He said, “You will make a buffoon out of me too! You are notorious for
your sandals; now you want to play the trick on me.”
I said, “No, just do it in your house, there’s no need to go outside. Just do it
in your house and see how it keeps you alert.”
He seemed interested—just a little more persuasion… His wife came out
and she said, “You are spoiling my husband. I will not allow these wooden
sandals in my house. If you want wooden sandals and this meditation, do it
anywhere else in the university, but not in my house. I have been tolerating
even this boy’s sandals for two years, and now he is persuading you.”
Awasthi said to me, “This is true. I was almost on the verge of telling you to
bring them. I have been trying meditation, but I have never been successful,
because with breathing it is so subtle that the mind moves away easily. Your
idea is good, but my wife…”
I said, “You can try them outside; others’ wives will get disturbed”—
because he was living in the professors’ colony. “You can walk on the
verandah of other people’s houses, so why should you be worried? Nobody
can prevent me. I have already established the precedent—just go.”
He said, “Let me think about it.”
The next day I came with a pair. He said, “No, because I inquired of my
neighbors. They said, ‘Awasthi, if you do this then we are all going to
complain against you that you should be removed from this colony to
another colony; this is too much. This boy is enough. When he comes to
meet you he wakes everybody. And a strange time he chooses—three
o’clock in the morning!—and we cannot do anything against him. We have
reported it to the vice-chancellor. The vice-chancellor says that he says it is
a meditation.’”

Now, in India you cannot prevent anybody from any kind of meditation.
That word is enough! When I started teaching people Dynamic Meditation,
there was trouble everywhere, even in my own house. My uncle started
doing it, and the neighbor filed a case against him in the court. My uncle
told me, “This is a difficult meditation. That neighbor was my friend, and
he would not normally do such a thing, but he is so angry that he says,
‘unless you stop this meditation I am going to fight the case, because you
disturb me early in the morning; when one really feels like falling into a
deep sleep, that is the time of your Dynamic!”‘
But I told my uncle, “Don’t be worried. You just say that this is our
religion, and this is our meditation.” Once you say “meditation” in India,
there is no problem.
When he came here, I asked, “What happened to the case?”
He said, “We have won the case, because I said, ‘This is our meditation,’
and I produced the book.
“The judge read the description and he said, ‘If it is a meditation, then the
court has no power over religion.’ So he told the neighbor, ‘You have to
accept it, there is no other way. This is his meditation. If you want to do it,
you can also do it. Why get unnecessarily boiled up and angry in your bed?
—better you also start.’”
The neighbor was very irritated with the court. He said, “This is strange—
the court suggesting, ‘You also start, why waste time? And if it is
meditation, we have no jurisdiction over religion.’”
It may appear as mischief—it was not. My mischief was the same shape as
now; my shoes are still the same shape.
This is the shape of the wooden one I dropped because now it would disturb
my meditation! Now I don’t need any help from it; rather, it is a
disturbance. That’s why I changed it!
Chapter 7

The Distillation of Rebellious Spirits
You have been speaking about the importance of being oneself. Could you
talk about the paradox of being an individual and melting into the
community of meditators around you?
There is no paradox as such, as far as the individual and his melting into a
community of meditators is concerned. The question has arisen out of a
confusion between two words: individuality and personality .
Yes, with personality there is trouble. The personality cannot melt into
anything—into love, into meditation, into friendship. The reason is that the
personality is a very thin mask given to the individual by the society. And
every society’s effort has been, up till now, to deceive you and everybody,
and to focus your attention on the personality as if it is your individuality.
The personality is that which is given by others to you.
Individuality is that which you are born with which is your self nature:
nobody can give it to you, and nobody can take it away.
Personality can be given and can be taken away. Hence, when you become
identified with your personality you start becoming afraid of losing it. So
anywhere when you see that a boundary has come beyond which you will
have to melt, the personality withdraws. It cannot go beyond the limit it
knows. It is very thin, an imposed layer. In deep love it will evaporate. In
great friendship it will not be found at all.
In any kind of communion the death of the personality is absolute.
And you feel identified with the personality: you have been told that you
are this by your parents, teachers, neighbors, friends—they have all been
molding your personality, giving a shape to it. And they have made
something of you which you are not and which you can never be. Hence
you are miserable, confined in this personality. This is your imprisonment.
But you are also afraid to come out of it because you don’t know that you
have anything more than this.

It is almost a situation like this: you think your clothes are you. Then
naturally you will be afraid to stand naked. It is not a question only of the
fear of dropping the clothes, but the fear that if you drop the clothes there
will be nobody, and everybody will see that there is emptiness, you are
hollow within. Your clothes go on giving you substance. The personality is
afraid, and it is very natural that it should be afraid.
As far as individuality is concerned, once you know your individuality…
And my vision of religiousness is nothing but a process of individuation,
finding, discovering your individuality. And in that finding—this is the
most important step—you discard personality, you take away the identity;
you withdraw from the personality and you start looking at it from a
distance.
Create that distance between you and personality.
You have come so close that you cannot see the separation. Once you have
understood that you are somebody other than your personality… You have
been thinking up to now that you were somebody else: You are A , and you
have been thinking up to now that you are B . That fallacy is bound to be
afraid, that fallacy cannot be in love—there is no possibility.
That’s why lovers are constantly in conflict. It is not their individualities
conflicting, it is their personalities in conflict. Both want the other to melt,
and both are afraid that if they melt they are lost, they are gone.
Friendship has disappeared from the world just as love has disappeared,
because friendship is possible only when you meet naked, as you are—not
as people want you to be, not as you should be, but simply just as you are.
When two persons open up to each other just as they are, friendship grows.
When two persons are ready to drop their masks, they have taken a
tremendous step towards religiousness. So love, friendship, anything that
helps you to drop the mask, is taking you towards religion.
But the pseudo-religions have done just the opposite. They are against love.
You can understand now, why they are against love: because love will
destroy the personality, and the pseudo-religion depends on your

personality. The pseudo-religions have made a great effort—all these
churches and priests and sermons—and what are they doing? Their whole
work is to create the personality. They manufacture personality—of course,
different kinds of personality: a Hindu personality, a Christian personality, a
Mohammedan personality. These are different models of personalities. All
these religions are just like factories creating different models of cars, but
the function is the same.
The pseudo-religions are all afraid of love. They talk about love, and they
teach you marriage. They talk about love and they say marriages are made
in heaven. It is not something that you have to find out; God has already
found the person for you. The astrologer will help you, the palmist will help
you, the priest will help you, the parents will help you to find them—
because God has already created the person for you, you are not to find the
person on your own.
They prevent you from loving, and they go on saying great things about
love. But their great words about love are bogus; they have no substance in
them.
Jesus says, “God is love.” There is no God—then what about love? So as
far as Jesus’ love is concerned, there is no love. If God is love, then with
God’s disappearance love also disappears.
And to make God synonymous with love is a beautiful strategy. He has
raised love to such a high pedestal—do you think it can happen between a
man and a woman? God is going to happen when you fall in love? That is
sin!
God is love when you love humanity, when you love words which don’t
mean anything. Have you ever met humanity anywhere? Can you imagine
that someday you will encounter humanity? You will meet only human
beings. Humanity is simply a word.
“Love humanity”—it gives you the idea of something abstract. “Love God,
love truth”—the sentences seem to be linguistically right, but existentially
they mean nothing.

And you have to remember it: that most of our beautiful words are only
words. You can play with them, you can create poetry, but you cannot live
them because words cannot be lived. There is nothing living in them.
Now, just think of the idea: “Love God.” What does it mean? How does one
fall in love with God? You have not seen God. You don’t know him. How
are you going to recognize that this fellow is God?
I was watching a film, The Difficulties of an Ordinary God . It is a beautiful
film. A man starts seeing a very ordinary God, just like an old hobo, with a
hat cricketers use. Now, God in a hat which cricketers use! And he looks
also like a cricket player. He is very old, but must have been in his young
days a cricket player. And when God declared to this man, “You don’t
recognize me: I am God, I created the world,” the man said, “My God! You
created the world! Don’t say it to anybody otherwise people will think you
are mad.”
But the old man insisted, he said, “You want some proof?”
The young man said, “I don’t want any proof. Just seeing you is enough to
know that you are no God. This is not the way—that God suddenly stops
you on the way; that you are going somewhere and he wants a lift! This is a
strange meeting. I have heard about the God Moses met on the mountain
and Jesus heard from the sky, and Mohammed—but God asking for a lift?”
But the old man was stubborn, he said, “I will give you proof.” And he
gives him proof: he simply disappears.
The young man looks all around—he was in the car sitting by his side—he
is not there! He says, “My God! Perhaps he really was God, but what a
funny God! And I missed the opportunity.”
The old man appeared again, he said, “Look, when I was gone you started
thinking you had missed an opportunity.”
But seeing him again the young man said, “You did some trick, you must
know some magic. But I cannot accept you as God. Your clothes seem to be
purchased from a secondhand place, or you have stolen them. They don’t fit

you, they are too loose and too dirty—as if you have not taken a bath for
many years.”
But the old man said, “God is so pure that he does not need any bath or
anything. And of course the clothes are very old, because I am very old. I
have told you that I created the world; at that time I created these clothes.
Since then I have not created anything, so they are very ancient.”
The young man said, “What to do about you? Where do you want to get
out?”
He said, “Anywhere, because I am everywhere.
The young man said, “Then why did you want a lift?”
He said, “Just because I see a potential in you, that you can become my
messenger.”
The young man said, “My God! Your messenger? If I say to anybody that
you are God they will think I am mad!”
But God said, “Try.” He gave his picture to him and disappeared.
The young man looked at the picture and said, “It is better to keep silent
about the whole thing. Either I am hallucinating, dreaming…”
He came home. His wife looked at him and said, “You look very worried.”
He said, “No, nothing, it’s nothing.”
She said, “But you look very worried and pale and afraid, as if you have
seen some ghost or something.”
He said, “My God! You think I have seen something?” He took out the
picture and showed the wife: “Can you recognize this man?”
She said, “He looks like a hobo—perhaps an old cricket player, or maybe he
just got a hat from some old clothes store. And what kind of clothes…?
Where did you find this picture, and why did you bring it home?”

The man said, “Can you keep this thing secret? I have something to tell
you. Close the door. This man is God. He asked for a lift.”
His wife looked at her husband and said, “Wait, I will phone the doctor.
What are you saying?—God asking for a lift in your car? And he has given
this picture to you?”
He said, “Yes, he has given this picture to me so that I can become his
messenger. He wants me to become his messenger.”
The wife said, “The first thing is that you should see the doctor.”
He tried hard: “I am perfectly sane, there is no problem.”
But the wife said, “If you think this man is God, it is certain that there is
some problem!”
So she takes him to the doctor, and the doctor is also puzzled. He said, “I
have seen many ideas about God but this is an absolutely novel idea. Where
did you get this picture?”
He said, “From God himself. He himself gave it to me by his own hand; and
he has me shown a miracle too.” And he told them about the miracle.
The wife, the doctor, the nurses, they all laughed; they said, “This is crazy!”
So he said, “Wait.” He raised his eyes upwards and said, “God, now please
help me…because these are all my friends. The doctor is my friend, the
family doctor; my wife, the nurse—there is nobody from the outside, we are
all like family. Please appear, otherwise they are all going to think that I am
mad.” And suddenly the man came down from the ceiling!
They all looked at him, and he said, “Wherever you need me I will be
present; you just go on spreading the word.”
But the young man said, “This is a very difficult word, just because of your
picture. Can’t you dress a little better?”
But he said, “No, these are my clothes, and this is the way I am.”

Now, four or five people had seen him and they were all shocked: “This
man is not mad, there is something in it.” The whole town became agog
with the rumor that five people had seen God. And the thing became so hot
that the church became immediately annoyed and irritated thinking that this
was a joke. “This man, and God!” The picture was printed in the
newspapers and everybody was laughing: “If this is God, then everything is
finished.”
The problem became so serious that the church had to call a meeting of the
elders and force this man who was the messenger to appear before the
council and prove that this was God. He tried, he told them, “Many times he
has showed me miracles. Just this morning when I was shaving in my
bathroom, a doubt arose in me that perhaps something was wrong with me;
it was possible that I was simply fantasizing. And he immediately looked at
me from the mirror. My image disappeared and his image was there in the
mirror, and he said, ‘Again and again, I go on giving you proofs, and you
are again doubting?’”
And then at the church, the young man appeared before the church council.
The high priest was there, and they were determined to punish this man if…
And they said, “You say that this man is God?”
He said, “I have to say it. I have seen him many times. He has shown me
many miracles. This morning he appeared in my mirror.” Everybody
laughed, and this poor man said, “He has chosen me as his messenger.”
They said, “This time he has really chosen a great messenger! Moses,
Mohammed, Buddha, Jesus—they were some people—but you are just a
clerk in a railway station. Now what qualities do you have that God would
choose you as a messenger?”
He said, “I don’t know. I don’t have any qualities, and I have never dreamed
in my life that God would choose me. But he has chosen me and he has
promised that if there is a need he will come to support me.”
So the church council asked, “Then let him appear.”

And they all were amazed that the door behind the priest opened, and God
appeared. There was silence for a moment. Seeing God, the priest gathered
courage and said, “You think you are God?”
He said, “I don’t think, I am. And this is my messenger. But,” He said, “you
can understand the difficulties of an ordinary God. I am an ordinary God,
that’s why I have chosen an ordinary messenger, because to find an
extraordinary messenger would be very difficult for me. You can see I am
an ordinary, poor God. So don’t be angry with this poor clerk; what he is
saying is absolutely right.”
How are you going to recognize God if he meets you in a cricketer’s hat?—
and of course he will be wearing some kind of hat—or without a hat. If he
is like me, bald, then he will be wearing a hat, some kind of hat.
This reminds me of the man I have been talking to you about: my
geography teacher, Chotelal Munde. He had cursed me because I made him
famous as “Munde”; so much so that once he had to sign himself as
Chotelal Munde. That day he was just on fire… I had asked the whole class
for contributions. Twenty rupees were collected, and we got a money order
in Chotelal Munde’s name. We arranged with the postman, “Come into his
class when we are there”—we gave the postman the time. So he appeared
exactly on time, with a twenty-rupee money order, sender anonymous.
Chotelal Munde was a poor man with a big family. He could not turn away
twenty rupees. In those days twenty rupees was a lot of money. In India, in
those days, a man could live on just a few rupees for the whole month,
things were so cheap. Before the First World War things were so cheap that
servants used to get one rupee, two rupees, three rupees a month at the
most, and that was enough. Twenty rupees…
But the postman said, “You will have to sign ‘Chotelal Munde’, because it
is in the name of Chotelal Munde.”
He thought for a moment, and he said, “I know who this anonymous sender
is. He is here, and I will teach him a lesson because now he has forced me
even to sign ‘Munde.’” And he had to sign; he signed “Chotelal Munde.”

Then he came to me and he said, “I curse you, that one day you will
become bald just like me.”
If you meet God in any dress, in any form, you will not be able to accept
him, because there is no way for you to recognize him. There has never
been any way to recognize him. That’s why I say Jesus and Moses and
Mohammed were all hallucinating. They had no grounds to declare that that
was God’s voice because they had never heard it before. So what evidence
was there that this voice was God’s voice? If they saw somebody standing
before them, how did they recognize that this person was God? There was
no way.
Jesus says, “God is love.” But God is unproved, just a vague word. He
makes love also a vague, meaningless word. Between you and God, what
kind of love will happen? What will be the relationship between you and
God? All the religions have tried to find some kind of relationship with
God. Many religions call him father. There are a few which call God
“mother.” There are a few which call God the beloved; for them, God is a
she, not a he.
In India there is a religion which believes that God is a lover and they are
his beloveds. These people who believe God to be their lover and
themselves to be his beloveds—in the day of course they are ashamed so
they cannot move about in women’s clothes, but in the night they do wear
women’s clothes, because the lover will be coming to meet them. And they
sleep with a statue of Krishna, their lover.
Now what kinds of foolishness have been going on for centuries? And it is
not that these people are idiots. Very scholarly people are among them, very
learned, but there is a blind spot. In every religious—so-called religious—
person’s mind there is a blind spot. Everywhere else is light, but on that
spot is complete darkness. Just as there are people who are color blind,
these people, in a certain way, in a certain aspect of their mind, are blind.
Bernard Shaw was color blind. He came to know it when he was sixty. For
sixty years such an intelligent man was not aware that he was color blind.
On his sixtieth birthday somebody sent him a present, a suit, but the person
forgot to send him a matching tie. So with his secretary he went to the

market, because he liked the coat, the pants—everything was really the best
available. So he went with his secretary to find a matching tie for it. And
when he was looking for the tie—the suit was yellow—he looked at a green
tie.
The woman secretary nudged him and told him, “This won’t look right: a
green tie on a yellow suit. It will look odd.”
The shopkeeper also said, “Yes sir, she is right. I was also worried about
that.”
He said, “But isn’t it the same color?—my suit and this tie?”
They said, “No, this is green and this is yellow.”
He said, “My God! I have never in my whole life thought that these are two
different colors.” He was blind to green; it appeared to him as yellow.
Green did not exist for him at all. Many people remain color blind their
whole life and never come to know about it. It was just a coincidence… If
he had lived sixty years he could have lived for forty more; there was no
problem in it. It was just a coincidence.
In the same way, every pseudo-religion creates a blind spot in your mind,
and from that blind spot it goes on manipulating you. That blind spot
creates your personality; and because the blind spot creates your personality
you can’t see anything wrong in it.
It is all wrong for the simple reason that it is not you; it is something glued
over you. It fulfills other people’s needs—it destroys you completely. And
naturally when you are covered by a painted paper you will be afraid to go
in the rain. You know that you will start disappearing.
The question is: on the one hand I teach you individuality, on the other hand
I teach you to melt with the community of meditators around me. There
seems to be a paradox; there is none. The personality is afraid; hence the
personality will prevent you from melting in all the situations where
melting is needed. And it seems absolutely logical that the personality

should be afraid. But individuality is never afraid of melting, because it is
your nature; there is no way to lose it.
You can melt, and by melting you will simply be more authentically
individual than you were before. The very step—that you dared to melt—is
going to throw away your personality, and only the individuality will
remain.
Individuality is your intrinsic nature. Nobody can take it, nobody can steal
it. If it were possible to take it away, society would have taken it away
already; they would not have taken any chances. They would have taken the
individuality from every child as he was born. But because it cannot be
taken away, there is no way, they have tried another strategy: cover it. It can
only be covered or uncovered.
I teach you to melt in the community of meditators because that will
uncover you. It will destroy your personality. If you are too attached, you
will find excuses for not melting, but those excuses are coming from your
personality, not from your individuality. And the sooner the personality
melts the better, because out of that melting you will find for the first time
who you are. And you will be surprised that all along you have been
playing a role which was prompted by the society, by the educationist, by
the priest, by the parents. They were all prompting you, manufacturing you
for a certain career.
I was staying in a friend’s house in Amritsar. Early in the morning I went
into the garden. My friend’s young child, not more than eight years old, was
also there picking flowers. Seeing me, he came to me and we started
talking. I asked him, “What are you going to become in life?”
And he said, “My mother wants me to become a doctor, my father wants me
to become an engineer, my uncle wants me to become a scientist, my
younger sister wants me to become the prime minister; and as far as I am
concerned, nobody asks me. And I don’t know either. If somebody asks the
way you have asked, I don’t know who I want to become.”
But this is the situation of every child. He is being dragged by others,
forced by others this way and that. Of course he lands somewhere, he

becomes something, but he loses his being. In this becoming, he has lost his
most precious treasure.
Hence, I teach you melting. The community around me is only a device for
you to melt. What will be melting will not be really you, only your
personality. And what will emerge out of that will be you.
But right now you don’t know who you are. And the one you think you are,
you are not. That which you are not is going to melt, certainly. And that
which you are is going to be a revelation, to you and to everybody. That is
going to be a finding; and it brings tremendous joy, ecstasy.
In just coming to know who you are, all your fears, phobias, and mind
problems simply disappear, evaporate, because they were part of the
personality.
All your inner conflicts are no longer there.
There is only harmony and a silence which is so profound that there is no
way to imagine it. And to see one’s original being is to see all that is worth
seeing, because from there the door opens towards existence.
So I am teaching you everything that will help you to melt.
I teach you love, not marriage. I teach you friendship, or even better,
friendliness. I teach you melting with the commune, the community of
meditators here.
The commune is not the family. You are born in a family… You have to
understand a little bit about the family. The family is a very strange
institution, and one of the most poisonous institutions. The parents think
they own you. The mother thinks she has given birth to you, the father
thinks he has given birth to you: you are his blood.
It was a continual problem in my childhood with my parents. I would object
whenever they would mention or indicate indirectly that I belonged to them.
I said, “That’s absolutely wrong. Forget the idea of possessing me. Yes, I
have come through you, but just because of that you don’t become my

possessor; I am not your possession. A child comes through you: you are a
passage. If passages started possessing, then any road you pass by will call
to you, ‘Where are you going? I possess you, I have brought you here.’”
My parents would say, “You can say anything you want to say to us, but
such things, not in front of others. If anybody hears that you are telling your
father, ‘You are just a road’…”
I said, “But I have to say these things because you provoke me; the whole
fault lies in you. You start—of course unconsciously, but you start thinking
that you possess me.” He wanted me to become a scientist, and I told him,
“You should leave it to me. I am now mature enough to decide in what
direction to go. And I am thankful that you have brought me up to this
point; but now, leave me alone. And this I am not saying out of any
ungratefulness; I am grateful that you have made me capable of choosing
my path. But one day I have to tell you: ‘Now, leave me alone.’ It is
shocking, it hurts, but what to do? You are the cause because you have
raised the expectation that this is what you would like.”
He was rarely angry with me, but on that point he was very angry; and he
was right in everybody’s eyes. The whole family was in agreement with
him. The neighborhood was in agreement with him, “What is the point in
going to an arts college and studying philosophy? You will be good for
nothing.”
In India many universities have closed their philosophy departments, and
other universities which still have a philosophy department only get girls as
their students. I myself was with two girls—only three students. And girls
join it for a different purpose: because in the philosophy department the
professors are continuously in need of students, they are afraid to fail
anybody. If people don’t come then their department is closed, and they will
be unemployed; so they persuade students to come. And for girls in India, a
degree is only for marriage. A postgraduate girl will get a rich husband, a
cultured family. She will move in the highest circles immediately. She has
nothing to do with philosophy.
One of my professors was a Bengali, and he believed in celibacy—
fanatically. In departments of philosophy you will find all kinds of strange

creatures. Whether it was raining or not, whether it was hot or not, sun or
not, he would walk with his umbrella just covering almost his face so he did
not have to see any woman. The university was full of girls, and in his class
there were two girls. Because of those two girls, he used to teach with
closed eyes.
For me that was a great opportunity; I used to sleep. For six months it went
perfectly well. One day the girls didn’t turn up, but that was my time to
sleep, so I went to sleep. That day he was teaching with open eyes—I did
not think that he would teach with his eyes open. So he said, “You can open
your eyes. I know you also believe in celibacy.”
I said, “For six months you were thinking this? I was simply sleeping. I
believe in sleeping, not in celibacy.”
He said, “This is strange; I was thinking you are just like me, and I was
feeling great respect for you. You deceived me for six months.”
I said, “I will deceive you in future too. It is not a deception, this is just my
time to sleep. And it was good that you were teaching with your eyes
closed, so there was no trouble, no conflict—because nobody was listening.
“Those girls are not interested in philosophy in any way, and what you are
teaching is so much crap that once in a while in my sleep when I hear it, I
just throw it out. And those two girls have nothing else to do but come to
the class. You can teach, you are paid for it. But those girls are just earning
a degree so that they can get a good marriage partner.
“I come here just to sleep, and you come here to teach; our ideas are
different. I don’t say to you, ‘Don’t disturb me,’ and I don’t disturb you
either. I am sound asleep and I don’t snore. Have I ever snored?”
He said, “You are strange, you drive me nuts! You take the question in such
a direction where I have nothing… Now you are asking about snoring.
Come to the point.”
I said, “I am exactly on the point. I am saying, have I ever disturbed you? If
I have not disturbed you then what is the complaint against me? I could

have not listened to you with open eyes. That’s what those two girls are
doing, but they are not interested in philosophy at all. While you are
teaching with your closed eyes, they are talking about clothes, about their
saris, and inquiring where to get this from, and how much…? That’s what
they are doing.
“Am I such a fool that I should listen to those two girls and you? Only I am
caught in between. So I simply sleep; that’s the only way to escape from all
this. And you know perfectly well from now on that I am not deceiving
you. If you had asked before I would have told you; it was just your
assumption. You presumed that I am also a celibate, you projected that
idea.”
But he was so afraid of seeing a woman. And I said. “Now that you have
raised the question I would like to say to you that your celibacy is not worth
anything. You can’t even look at a woman? Are you so afraid? Your
umbrella is nothing but your cowardice. You are continually carrying it all
around the university, and everybody is laughing. People can’t see your
face, you can’t see people’s faces.” He would walk so fast that nobody
could start walking with him or talking with him. And he had a really good
walking pace—fast, covered with his umbrella.
“How long is this umbrella going to protect your celibacy, you tell me. And
have you heard of any scripture that says an umbrella can help you to
remain celibate? Have you seen any pictures of Mahavira, Buddha, Krishna
carrying an umbrella? You are the first celibate in the world who is trying to
be celibate by using an umbrella. And I know perfectly well that you must
be looking; here in class also you must be looking sometimes, just opening
your eyes a little bit.”
He said, “But how do you know, because you are fast asleep?”
I said, “How do you know that I am fast asleep? You must be looking. How
long can you keep your eyes closed? And then to teach…”
The family tries to make something of you. My family wanted me to
become a scientist; they saw a potential. I said, “I do understand that as a
scientist I will be paid more, I will be respected more. As a philosopher

perhaps I may remain unemployed. But the time has come that I should
choose my own path. If it leads into the desert at least I will be happy that I
have followed my own path; there will be no grudge against anybody.
Following your path, even if I become the greatest scientist, I will not be
happy because I have been forced; it is a kind of slavery. And you have the
power to force me, but remember that I will not in any way allow anything
to be imposed upon me.”
That time my father became angry. He said, “Okay, go to the arts
department but I am not going to give you any money.”
I said, “That’s settled. Money is yours; I am not yours. If you don’t want to
give me money, that I can understand. And I can understand that if I go to
the science department, you are ready to give me money because then I am
following your desire. You are ready to give money to me only if I remain
under your control.
“So that’s perfectly clear: you are using money to force me in a certain
direction which I refuse. But,” I said, “you will suffer repentance just
because you mentioned money. Do you think you can force me by
threatening that you are not going to give me any money?”
I left the house. For two years he was continually coming to me, saying,
“Forget that and forgive me. I am really sorry that I mentioned the money. I
can see your trouble, and I am the cause of it”—because at night I used to
work as an editor in a newspaper just to earn money so that in the day I
could join the university. But I said, “How can I accept money from you?”
One day, when tears came to his eyes, I said, “Okay, if you insist, just put
the money on the table. I will not take it from your hand. From the table I
can take it because with the table I have no problem, no trouble, no
conflict.” So that’s the way it continued the remaining four years. He would
put it on the table and I would take it from the table, but not from him
—“because,” I said to him, “that strategy is ugly.”
But the family exploits every child because it has the power of money,
prestige, the power of numbers. And a child is just a child; how can he
revolt? And the family poisons the child: you are a Hindu, a Muslim, a

Christian. It poisons the child: you are a republican, you are a democrat,
you are a socialist, you are a communist. It goes on poisoning him. And this
whole poisoning piles up and becomes your personality.
The commune is not your family… or is your real family.
Strangely enough, every boy hates his father, every girl hates her mother;
but nobody says so. On the surface everything is polite and nice, just
goody-goody. Deep down there are wounds. All the wounds that have been
inflicted upon you in your childhood you will carry your whole life. And
those wounds will work upon you in such a way that they will spoil your
whole meaning.
For example, I see that the girl who hates her mother will behave exactly
like the mother—because from where is she going to learn? The mother
was the first woman she knew. She hates her because the mother forced her
to be someone who she is not, and now she has to carry that burden.
So on the one hand she hates her; on the other hand that was the woman she
came to know most intimately. So in her gestures, in her language, in her
reactions, in everything she will repeat her mother. She will be just a carbon
copy: the personality that she is carrying is her mother’s personality.
No wonder that people hate themselves too. It is for the simple reason that
the personality they think they are, is the personality given by the people
whom they wanted to rebel against, but against whom they were helpless.
Sigmund Freud has made a significant point about it: that the idea of God as
father must have arisen as a compensation. Somewhere back in primitive
prehistory days, some young man must have killed his father because that
was the only way to be himself. But then the repentance for killing the
father…
Sigmund Freud has no historical facts to support it, there is no history
available, but his deduction is psychological, not historical. He says that
every boy is going to hate his father. He will go on hating him.

But in hating one’s own father, the conscience is disturbed. To console the
conscience, he starts worshipping the father.
In India particularly—because I know India more than any other country—
the son has to touch the feet of the father, of the mother, of everybody who
is older than him. This is just a way to help him: by touching the feet of the
father, he balances his hate with respect, and he feels at ease that he respects
his father.
If you don’t hate your father, I don’t think there is any need to touch the feet
of the father. Perhaps once in a while, out of gratitude, you may touch them;
but that cannot be a formality, it can only be an informal happening. Right
now, people touch the feet, but there is no feeling in it. How can there be
feeling in it? There is hate inside: this is the man who has spoiled your life.
The family becomes your basic unit; so if your family is in conflict with the
neighbor, then it is your family—right or wrong, you will fight alongside
your family.
In front of my house lived a goldsmith—he was a little eccentric. One of his
eccentricities was that whenever he would go to the market or to the river,
he would lock his house—even if his wife was inside, his children were
inside. He would lock the house from the outside and would pull the lock
two or three times to see whether it was really locked. And if anybody
created suspicion—and I was continually… I would stand just a few houses
away when he was going to the river, and I would say, “Soniji” that means
“goldsmithji”—“have you forgotten to check your lock?”
He would say, “Have I forgotten?” and back he would go. Once when he
was taking a bath in the river, I told him, “Today you have forgotten.”
He said, “Really?”
I said, “I was sitting in front of you.” And half-bathed he ran back first to
check.
He was in some conflict with my father—a legal case about some land. The
land really belonged to him, but my father had paid his younger brother for

it. The younger brother had pretended that it belonged to him, so my father
paid him. And on the registry day, it was found out that the man was
deceiving: the land belonged to the other brother. He would not return the
money, and my father would not give up control of the land to the other
brother to whom it belonged; so there was a legal case.
I told my father, “I will be coming to support the eccentric goldsmith.”
He said, “What! You will be a witness against me?”
I said, “Of course. I know that you have paid, but that was your fault. You
should have found out to whom the land belonged before you paid. And
that poor eccentric goldsmith, what fault is it of his?—the land belongs to
him. And anyway he is far poorer than you; so even if you lose the money,
it is better than if he loses the ground, because he is really poor.”
My father said, “But you don’t understand a simple thing: being against
your own father…?”
I said, “It is not a question of being against my own father. I don’t believe in
this ‘right or wrong, my family…’ And I know that your claim is right, but
it is your mistake; you should suffer. And I have been harassing that poor
goldsmith, so it is a chance to help him. I will be helping him.”
The family wants you to be with it. I have seen families, generations after
generations fighting in the courts, destroying each other, killing each other,
for generations. Because your forefathers were against somebody—you
have nothing to do with these people who are living now, they have not
done anything wrong to you—somewhere in the past, four, five, six
generations ago… You may not even know the names of the people who
fought, but the enmity goes on.
The family tries to disconnect you from the whole society, just as the nation
divides you from other nations. It is the same strategy of division.
A commune is not a family. Nobody here is father, nobody here is mother.
Nobody here is brother or sister. Nobody here is husband or wife.

Here are only individuals, and these individuals have decided to live in
freedom, and to support each other in living the way of freedom. Nobody
possesses anybody. Nobody has any hold on anybody. Everybody is
supportive of whatsoever you are, of whatsoever you can be.
The family is dictatorial. A commune is simply supportive. I don’t give you
even guidelines, because even guidelines may become dictatorial in your
mind, because your mind has been made by the society. Even if I give you
guidelines you may think these are commandments.
Guidelines are not commandments. You are not to follow them, just
understanding them is enough. Then follow your path. Perhaps on your path
something that I had said may be of use, or perhaps nothing will be of any
use. So there is no need to have faith in it.
A commune is a gathering of free individuals—undemanding, non-forcing,
non-dictatorial—just supporting and helping. Because alone it will be
difficult; you will find it almost impossible to be yourself in the so-called
society, because that society is not supportive. Yes, if it supports, it supports
conditionally; it is always a bargain, a business. The society will do this for
you if you are ready to do that for the society: a simple contract.
A commune is not a business, a relationship. There is no contract: just a few
people who feel imprisoned in the society drop out and create a gathering of
similar rebels. They are all rebels, and they are all supportive of each other.
Whatever one’s rebellion, and whatever one wants to be, the commune’s
support is unconditional. But the commune can exist only if you merge with
it. If you keep yourself aloof, there is no commune because there is no
communion. Hence I say, dissolve yourself in the commune.
And remember that you will become an individual by this dissolving. You
will not lose your individuality, you will find it—that’s the only way to find
it. In the society you can go on changing your personality, but you will
never find your individuality. You can change from a Catholic to a
communist, but that will not make any difference at all. You will not go any
longer to the Vatican, but now to the Kremlin—those red stars will be holy.
Now Russia will become your holy land.

You have simply climbed out of one ditch and fallen into another ditch.
Maybe they have a little different shape, but ditches are ditches. From one
jail you move into another jail. Of course, while you are moving from one
jail to another, just in between you will have a little taste of freedom. Don’t
think that this is going to be the taste of the other jail. That is only in
between.
Escape! Don’t go to the other jail; escape from any jail. And never go again
into the same structure, because all structures are the same.
A commune is an immensely spiritual phenomenon: you are with people
and yet you are alone. Nobody trespasses on your aloneness. Everybody
respects your aloneness. You are with many people, you are together, but
nobody tries to impose any condition, any relationship, any bondage.
Nobody takes from you any promise for tomorrow, because tomorrow you
will be different, the other will be different. Who knows about tomorrow?
When tomorrow comes we will see.
The commune has no tomorrow, it lives here and now. And it lives totally
and intensely, because we are not living as a means to some other life. We
are living as an end to itself Catholics are living for some other life; this life
is only a ladder. And the same is true with all the religions: this life is to be
sacrificed. They all teach you sacrifice—they really sacrifice you. You are
all butchered—on different altars, in different temples—but you are all
butchered.
The only way to save yourself from these butchers who are all around is to
join together with similar kinds of rebels, so the way of revolution becomes
strong, grounded, self-supporting. And then you find everybody is living
intensely. We are not living for another world, so why should we live
lukewarm?
We should live real hot!
In Ahmedabad I used to go often on a bridge where there was a very big
advertisement. I liked that advertisement; just one word was not right. It
was an advertisement for a certain cold drink. The advertisement said,
“Livva little hot, sippa gold spot”—gold spot is something like coca-cola.

But they have found a really good slogan: “Livva little hot”—but why a
little? That was my trouble. Sippa anything, but why a little?
Jayantibhai used to drive me over that bridge, and he would go fast when
the board was there. And I would say, “Jayantibhai, wait!”
He said, “That is why I was going fast; otherwise you will see that board
again…”
And I told him, “That board is really very philosophical—just a little
mistake, but all philosophers have been making mistakes. A little hot?—
that hurts. Be really hot, because there is nothing to sacrifice for.”
All religions teach you to be martyrs. All families teach you to be martyrs.
All nations teach you to be martyrs. It is a strange world. Why are people
being taught to be suicidal?—because to be a martyr is just a good word for
committing suicide. Nobody teaches living. Nobody encourages living.
Nobody teaches you that you can be a little more hot—why are you just
smoking with no fire? Many people are just smoking with no fire.
How long have you been smoking, and how long are you going to smoke?
Create some fire!
And when there is real fire, there is no smoke. When it is really hot there is
no smoke. Burn like a flame without any smoke! But everybody is telling
you to keep a low profile. Why? Such a small life, why keep a low profile?
Jump as high as you can.
Dance as madly as you can.
Melt as totally as you can.
And out of that burning, living, melting, you will find your authenticity,
your individuality. Individuality is never afraid.
In front of my house there was a tall tamarind tree. Now the tamarind tree is
not very strong, its branches can break very easily. It was so tall, and I was
always going and climbing it. My whole family would gather around and

they would say, “Now stop, no further!” I would continue going higher, and
they would shout, “Do you hear or not? No further.”
I would say, “Till you stop shouting ‘No further’ I am going to climb. At
the most I can fall—perhaps a few fractures; but the height is so
challenging, it is calling me up. You shut up completely, then I will stop.”
When they saw that I had reached a place from where a fall was certain then
they would shut up. And that was a condition: “Unless you stop trying to
stop me, I will go on and on.”
Only my grandfather used to say, “Don’t be worried about anything. These
people are all cowards. I would have loved to come with you but I am too
old, but you should remember always that I am with you. So let them shout
‘Stop!’”
Even neighbors would come and start shouting, “Stop!” But I had made it a
condition again and again: “Unless you stop shouting, I will go still higher.
And now it is getting really dangerous, so be quiet.” They had to be quiet.
But again, next time I would… And they would shout again, and I would
say, “You don’t understand. Just leave me alone! At least trust that I can
also see that the branch is now getting thinner, and the wind is stronger, and
the tree is swaying. I can also see it. Let me see and let me feel. And let me
decide; don’t decide for me. I hate that.”
But every family goes on deciding for you.
A commune does not decide for you. At the most it helps you. So with the
commune there is no paradox between individuality and melting. It is not a
society, not a family. It is a gathering of rebels of all kinds. So there is no
need to fit with each other and be like each other. All are rebels of different
kinds. One thing is common, that they are rebels.
The rebellious spirit is the common factor that joins the commune and
makes it one whole—without destroying anybody’s individuality, without
destroying anybody in any way.
Chapter 8

Conscience: A Coffin for Consciousness
Is there any point in living?
Man has been brought up by all the traditions in a schizophrenic way.
It was helpful to divide man in every possible dimension, and create a
conflict between the divisions. This way man becomes weak, shaky, fearful,
ready to submit, surrender; ready to be enslaved by the priests, by the
politicians, by anybody.
This question also arises out of a schizophrenic mind. It will be a little
difficult for you to understand because you may have never thought that the
division between ends and means is a basic strategy of creating a split in
man.
Has living any meaning, any point, any worth? The question is: Is there
some goal to be achieved by life, by living? Is there some place where you
will reach one day by living? Living is a means; the goal, the attainment,
somewhere far away, is the end. And that end will make it meaningful. If
there is no end, then certainly life is meaningless; a God is needed to make
your life meaningful.
First create the division between ends and means. That divides your mind.
Your mind is always asking why? For what? And anything that has no
answer to the question, “For what?” slowly, slowly becomes of no value to
you. That’s how love has become valueless. What point is there in love?
Where is it going to lead you? What is going to be the achievement out of
it? Will you attain to some utopia, some paradise? Of course, love has no
point in that way. It is pointless.
What is the point of beauty? You see a sunset—you are stunned, it is so
beautiful, but any idiot can ask the question, “What is the meaning of it?”
and you will be without any answer. And if there is no meaning then why
are you unnecessarily bragging about beauty?
A beautiful flower, or a beautiful painting, or beautiful music, beautiful
poetry—they don’t have any point. They are not arguments to prove

something, neither are they means to achieve any end.
And living consists only of those things which are pointless.
Let me repeat it: living consists only of those things which have no point at
all, which have no meaning at all—meaning in the sense that they don’t
have any goal, that they don’t lead you anywhere, that you don’t get
anything out of them.
In other words, living is significant in itself. The means and ends are
together, not separate.
And the strategy of all those who have been lustful for power, down the
ages has been that means are means, and ends are ends. Means are useful
because they lead you to the end. If they don’t lead to your end, they are
meaningless. In this way, they have destroyed all that is really significant.
And they have imposed things on you which are absolutely insignificant.
Money has a point. A political career has a point. To be religious has a
point, because that is the means to heaven, to God. Business has a point
because immediately you see the end result. Business became important,
politics became important, religion became important; poetry, music,
dancing, love, friendliness, beauty, truth, all disappeared from your life.
A simple strategy, but it destroyed all that makes you significant, that gives
ecstasy to your being. But the schizophrenic mind will ask, “What is the
point of ecstasy?”
People have asked me, hundreds of people, “What is the meaning of
meditation? What will we gain out of it? First, it is very difficult to attain—
and even if we attain it, what is going to be the end result?”
It is very difficult to explain to these people that meditation is an end in
itself. There is no end beyond it.
Anything that has an end beyond it is just for the mediocre mind. And
anything which has its end in itself is for the really intelligent person.

But you will see the mediocre person becoming the president of a country,
the prime minister of a country; becoming the richest man in the country,
becoming the pope, becoming the head of a religion. But these are all
mediocre people; their only qualification is their mediocrity. They are third
rate and basically they are schizophrenic. They have divided their life into
two parts: ends and means.
My approach is totally different: to make you one single whole.
So I want you to live just for life’s sake.
The poets have defined art as for its own sake, there is nothing else beyond
it: art for art’s sake. It will not appeal to the mediocre at all because he
counts things in terms of money, position, power. Is your poetry going to
make you the prime minister of the country?—then it is meaningful. But in
fact your poetry may make you just a beggar, because who is going to
purchase your poetry?
I am acquainted with many kinds of geniuses who are living like beggars
for the simple reason that they did not accept the mediocre way of life, and
they did not allow themselves to become schizophrenic. They are living—
of course they have a joy which no politician can ever know, they have a
certain radiance which no billionaire is going to know. They have a certain
rhythm to their heart of which these so-called religious people have no idea.
But as far as their outside is concerned, they have been reduced by the
society to live like beggars.
I would like you to remember one great, perhaps the greatest, Dutch
painter: Vincent van Gogh. His father wanted him to become a religious
minister, to live a life of respect—comfortable, convenient—and not only in
this world, in the other world after death too. But Vincent van Gogh wanted
to become a painter. His father said, “You are mad!”
He said, “That may be. To me, you are mad. I don’t see any significance in
becoming a minister because all I would be saying would be nothing but
lies. I don’t know God. I don’t know whether there is any heaven or hell. I
don’t know whether man survives after death or not. I will be continually
telling lies. Of course it is respectable, but that kind of respect is not for me;

I will not be rejoicing in it. It will be a torture to my soul.” The father threw
him out.
He started painting—he is the first modern painter. You can draw a line at
Vincent van Gogh: before him painting was ordinary. Even the greatest
painters, like Michelangelo, are very small compared to Vincent van Gogh,
because what they were painting was ordinary. Their painting was for the
marketplace.
Michelangelo was painting for the churches his whole life; painting on
church walls and church ceilings. He broke his backbone painting church
ceilings, because to paint a ceiling you have to lie down on a high stool
while you paint. It is a very uncomfortable position, and for days together,
months together… But he was earning money, and he was earning respect.
He was painting angels, Christ, God creating the world. His most famous
painting is of God creating the world.
Vincent van Gogh starts a totally new dimension. He could not sell a single
painting in his whole life. Now, who will say that his painting has any
point? Not a single person could see that there was anything in his
paintings. His younger brother used to send him money; enough so that he
did not die of starvation, just enough for seven days’ food every week—
because if he gave him enough for a whole month he would finish it within
two or three days, and the remaining days he would be starving. Every
week he would send money to him.
And what Vincent van Gogh was doing was for four days he would eat, and
for the three days in between those four days he was saving money for
paints, canvasses. This is something totally different from Michelangelo,
who earned enough money, who became a rich person. He sold all his
paintings. They were made to be sold, it was business. Of course he was a
great painter, so even paintings that were going to be sold came out
beautifully. But if he had had the guts of a Vincent van Gogh, he would
have enriched the whole world.
Three days starving, and van Gogh would purchase paints and canvasses.
His younger brother, hearing that not a single painting had sold, gave some
money to a man—a friend of his not known to Vincent van Gogh—and told

him to go and purchase at least one painting: “That will give him some
satisfaction. The poor man is dying; the whole day he is painting, starving
for painting but nobody is ready to purchase his painting—nobody sees
anything in it.” Because to see something in Vincent van Gogh’s painting
you need the eye of a painter of the caliber of van Gogh; less than that will
not do. His paintings will seem strange to you.
His trees are painted so high that they go above the stars; stars are left far
behind. Now, you will think that this man is mad: trees going up higher than
the stars? Have you seen such trees anywhere? When Vincent van Gogh
was asked, “Your trees always go beyond the stars…?” he said, “Yes,
because I understand trees. I have felt always that trees are the ambition of
the earth to reach the stars. Otherwise why? To touch the stars, to feel the
stars, to go beyond the stars—this is the desire of the earth. The earth tries
hard, but cannot fulfill the desire. I can do it. The earth will understand my
paintings, and I don’t care about you, whether you understand or not.”
Now, you cannot sell this kind of painting. The man his brother had sent
came. Van Gogh was very happy: at last somebody had come to purchase.
But soon his happiness turned into despair because the man looked around,
picked one painting and gave the money.
Vincent van Gogh said, “But do you understand the painting? You have
picked it up so casually, you have not looked; I have hundreds of paintings.
You have not even bothered to look around; you have simply picked one
that was accidentally in front of you. I suspect that you are sent by my
brother. Put the painting back, take your money. I will not sell the painting
to a man who has no eyes for painting. And tell my brother never to do such
a thing again.”
The man was puzzled how he managed to figure it out. He said, “You don’t
know me, how did you figure it out?”
He said, “That’s too simple. I know my brother wants me to feel some
consolation. He must have manipulated you—and this money belongs to
him—because I can see that you are blind as far as paintings are concerned.
And I am not one to sell paintings to blind people; I cannot exploit a blind
man and sell him a painting. What will he do with it? And tell my brother

also that he also does not understand painting, otherwise he would not have
sent you.”
When the brother came to know, he came to apologize. He said, “Instead of
giving you a little consolation, I have wounded you. I will never do such a
thing again.”
His whole life van Gogh was just giving his paintings to friends: to the
hotel where he used to eat four days a week he would present a painting, or
to a prostitute who had said once to him that he was not a beautiful man. To
be absolutely factual, he was ugly. No woman ever fell in love with him, it
was impossible.
This prostitute out of compassion—and sometimes prostitutes have more
compassion than your so-called ladies, they understand men more—just out
of compassion she said, “I like you very much.” He had never heard this.
Love was a far away thing. Even liking…
He said, “Really, you like me? What do you like in me?” Now, the woman
was at a loss.
She said, “I like your ears. Your ears are beautiful.” And you will be
surprised that van Gogh went home, cut off his ears with a razor, packed
them beautifully, went to the prostitute and gave his ears to her. And blood
was flowing…
She said, “What have you done?”
He said, “Nobody ever liked anything in me. And I am a poor man, how
can I thank you? You liked my ears; I have presented them to you. If you
had liked my eyes, I would have presented my eyes to you. If you had liked
me, I would have died for you.”
The prostitute could not believe it. But for the first time, van Gogh was
happy, smiling; somebody had liked at least a part of him. And that woman
had just said jokingly—otherwise who bothers about your ears? If people
like something, they like your eyes, they like your nose, your lips—you
won’t hear lovers talking about each other’s ears, that they like them.

Only in ancient Hindu scriptures on sexology: the Kamasutras of
Vatsayana… That is the only book I have been able to find that can be
connected to this incident five thousand years afterwards with Vincent van
Gogh, because only Vatsayana says, “Very few people are aware that ear
lobes are tremendously sexual and sensitive points in the body. And lovers
should play with each other’s ear lobes”—and this is a fact, although
unknown.
If you start playing with the ear lobes of your lover, she or he may think that
you are a little crazy—what are you doing? Because people have become
fixed on certain ideas: kissing is okay… But there are tribes where nobody
has ever heard about kissing; they rub noses with each other, and that is
thought to be the most loving gesture. Certainly it is more hygienic, far
more medically supportable than the French kiss. Those people who rub
noses think of people giving French kisses to each other as just dirty, simply
dirty.
But this prostitute perhaps was aware—because prostitutes become aware
of many things which ordinary women and men don’t become aware of,
because they come in contact with so many people. Perhaps she was aware
that ears have a sexual significance. They certainly have. Vatsayana is one
of the greatest experts. Freud and Havelock Ellis and other sexologists are
just pygmies before Vatsayana. And when he says something, he means it.
Van Gogh lived his whole life in poverty. He died painting. Before dying he
went mad, because for one year continually he was painting the sun:
hundreds of paintings, but nothing was coming to the point he wanted. But
the whole day standing in the hottest place in France, in Arles, with the sun
on the head—because without the experience how can you paint? He
painted the final painting, but he went mad. Just the heat, the hunger… But
he was immensely happy; even in madness he was painting. And those
paintings which he did in the madhouse are now worth millions.
He committed suicide for the simple reason that he had painted everything
that he wanted to paint. Now painting was finished; he had come to a dead
end. There was nothing more to do. Now to go on living was occupying
space, somebody’s place; that was ugly to him.

That’s what he wrote in his letters to his brother: “My work is done. I have
lived tremendously—the way I wanted to live. I have painted what I wanted
to paint. My last painting I have done today, and now I am taking a jump
from this life into the unknown, whatever it is, because this life no longer
contains anything for me.”
Will you consider this man a genius? Will you consider this man intelligent,
wise? No, ordinarily you would think he is simply mad. But I cannot say
that. His living and his painting were not two things: painting was his
living, that was his life. So to the whole world it seems suicide—not to me.
To me it simply seems a natural end. The painting is completed. Life is
fulfilled. There was no other goal; whether he receives the Nobel Prize,
whether anybody appreciates his painting…
In his life nobody appreciated his work. In his life no art gallery accepted
his paintings, even free. After he died, slowly, slowly, because of his
sacrifice, painting changed its whole flavor. There would have been no
Picasso without Vincent van Gogh. All the painters that have come after
Vincent van Gogh owe him, incalculably, because that man changed the
whole direction. Slowly, slowly, as the direction changed, his paintings
were discovered. A great search was made.
People had thrown his paintings into their empty houses, or in their
basements, thinking that they were useless. They rushed to their basements,
discovered his paintings, cleaned them. Even faked paintings came onto the
market as authentic van Gogh. Now there are only two hundred paintings;
he must have painted thousands. But any art gallery that has a Vincent van
Gogh is proud, because the man poured his whole life in his paintings. They
were not painted by color, but by blood, by breath—his heartbeat is there.
Don’t ask such a man, “Is there any meaning in your painting?” He is there
in his painting, and you are asking, “Is there any meaning in your
painting?” If you cannot see the meaning, you are responsible for it.
The higher a thing rises, the fewer the people who will recognize it.
When something reaches to the highest point, it is very difficult to find even
a few people to recognize it. At the ultimate omega point, only the person

himself recognizes what has happened to him; he cannot find even a second
man.
That’s why a buddha has to declare himself that he is enlightened. Nobody
else can recognize it, because to recognize it, you will have to have some
taste of it. Otherwise, how can you recognize it? No recognition is possible
because the point is so high.
But what is the meaning of buddhahood? What is the meaning of becoming
enlightened? What is the point? If you ask about the point, there is none. It
itself is enough. It needs nothing else to make it significant.
That’s what I mean when I say that the really valuable things in life are not
divided into ends and means. There is no division between ends and means.
Ends are the means, means are the ends—perhaps two sides of the same
coin inseparably joined together—in fact, they are a oneness, a wholeness.
You ask me, “Is there any point in life, in living?” I am afraid that if I say
there is no point in living, you will think that means you have to commit
suicide, because if there is no point in living, then what else to do?—
commit suicide! I am not saying commit suicide, because in committing
suicide also there is no point.
Living: live, and live totally. Dying: die, and die totally. And in that totality
you will find significance.
I am deliberately not using the word meaning , and using the word
significance because meaning is contaminated. The word meaning always
points somewhere else. You must have heard, you must have read in your
childhood, many stories… Why are they written for children?—perhaps the
writers don’t know, but it is part of the same exploitation of humanity.
The stories are like this…
A man is there whose life is in a parrot. If you kill the parrot, the man will
be killed, but you cannot kill the man directly. You can shoot, and nothing
will happen. You can swing your sword and the sword will pass through his
neck, but the neck will remain still joined to the body. You cannot kill the

man—first you have to find where his life is. So in those stories the life is
always somewhere else. And when you find out you just kill the parrot and
wherever the man is, he will immediately die.
Even when I was a child, I used to ask my teacher “This seems to be a very
stupid kind of story because I don’t see anyone whose life is in a parrot or
in a dog or in something else, like a tree.” It was the first time I heard that
story, that type of story; then I came across many. They were written
specially for children.
The man who was teaching me was a very nice and respectable gentleman.
I asked him, “Can you tell me where your life is? Because I would like to
try…”
He said, “What do you mean?”
I said, “I would like to kill that bird in which your life is. You are an
intelligent man, wise, respected. You must have put your life somewhere
else so nobody can kill you. That’s what the story says—that wise people
keep their life somewhere else, so that you cannot kill them, so that nobody
can kill them. And it is impossible to find where they have kept their life
unless they tell the secret, nobody can figure it out. This world is so big,
and there are so many people and so many animals, and so many birds, and
so many trees… Nobody knows where that man has put his life.
“You are a wise man, respected, you must have kept it somewhere; you can
just tell me in private. I will not kill the bird completely; just give him a few
twists and turns, and see what happens to you.”
He said, “You are a strange boy. I have been teaching this story my whole
life, and you want to give me a twist and turn. This is only a story.”
But I said, “What is the point of the story? Why do you go on teaching this
story and this kind of things to children?”
He could not answer. I asked my father, “What can be the meaning of this
story? Why should these things be taught, which are absolutely absurd?”

He said, “If your teacher cannot answer, then how can I answer? I don’t
know. He is far more educated and intelligent and wise. You harass him,
rather than harassing me.”
But now I know what the meaning of the stories is and why they are being
taught to the children. They enter in their unconscious and they start
thinking life is always somewhere else—in heaven, in God, always
somewhere else—it is not in you. You are empty, just an empty shell. You
don’t have meaning in your life herenow. Here you are only a means, a
ladder. If you go up the ladder, perhaps someday you will find your life,
your God, your goal, your meaning, whatever name you give to it.
But I say to you that you are the meaning, the significance, and living itself
is intrinsically complete.
Life needs nothing else to be added to it.
All that life needs is that you live it to its totality. If you live only partially,
then you will not feel the thrill of being alive. It is like any mechanism
when just a part is functioning… For example in a clock: if only the second
hand is working but neither the hour hand nor the minute hand moves—
only the second hand goes on moving—what purpose will it serve? There
will be movement, a certain part is working, but unless the whole works and
works in harmony, there cannot be a song out of it.
And this is the situation: everybody is living partially, a small part. So you
make noise but you can’t create a song. You move your hands and legs but
no dance happens. The dance, the song, the significance comes into
existence immediately your whole functions in harmony, in accord. Then
you don’t ask such questions as: Is there any point in living?—you know.
Living itself is the point. There is no other point.
But you have not been allowed to remain one and whole. You have been
divided, cut into several parts. A few parts have been completely closed—
so much so that you don’t know even that they belong to you. Much of you
has been thrown in the basement. Much of you has been so condemned that

although you know it is there, you cannot dare to accept it, that it is part of
you—you go on denying it; you go on repressing it.
You know only a very small fragment in you, which they call conscience,
which is a social product, not a natural thing, which society creates inside
you to control you from inside. The constable is outside, the court is outside
controlling you. And the conscience is inside, which is far more powerful.
That’s why even in court they will first give you the Bible. You take the
oath on the Bible because the court also knows that if you are a Christian,
putting your hand on the Bible and saying, “I swear to tell the truth, the
whole truth, and nothing but the truth,” your conscience will force you to
speak the truth, because now you have taken the oath in the name of God,
and you have touched the Bible. If you speak a lie you will be thrown into
hell.
Before, at the most, if you were caught you would be thrown into
imprisonment for a few months, a few years. But now you will be thrown
into hell for eternity. Even the court accepts that the Bible is more powerful,
the Gita is more powerful, the Koran is more powerful than the court, than
the military, than the army.

Conscience is one of the meanest inventions of humanity. And from the
very first day the child is born we start creating a conscience in him; a small
part which goes on condemning anything that the society does not want in
you, and goes on appreciating anything that the society wants in you. You
are no longer whole.
The conscience continuously goes on forcing you, so that you have to
always look out—God is watching. Every act, every thought, God is
watching, so beware!
Even in thoughts you are not allowed freedom: God is watching. What kind
of peeping Tom is this God? In every bathroom he is looking through the
keyhole; he won’t leave you alone—even in your bathroom?
There are tribes in the world where even in your dream if you do something
wrong, in the morning you have to go to the person… For example you
have insulted somebody in your dream—in the morning you have to go to
apologize: “Forgive me, last night I insulted you in a dream; I am so sorry.”
Even dreams are controlled by the society. You are not allowed even in a
dream to be yourself They go on talking about freedom of thought—that’s
all nonsense because from the very beginning they put the base in every
child for unfreedom of thought.
They want to control your thoughts. They want to control your dreams.
They want to control everything in you. It’s through a very clever device—
conscience. It pricks you. It goes on telling you, “This is not right, don’t do
it; you will suffer.” It goes on forcing you: “Do this, this is the right thing to
do; you will be rewarded for it.”
This conscience will never allow you to be whole. It won’t allow you to live
as if there is nothing prohibited, as if there are no boundaries, as if you are
left totally independent to be whatsoever you can be. Then life has
meaning, then living has meaning—not the meaning that is derived from
ends, but the meaning that is derived from living itself. Then whatever you
do, in that very doing is your reward.

For example, I am speaking to you. I am enjoying it. For thirty-five years I
have been continually speaking for no purpose. With this much speaking I
could have become a president, a prime minister; there was no problem in
it. With so much speaking I could have done anything. What have I gained?
But I was not out for gain in the first place—I enjoyed.
This was my painting, this was my song, this was my poetry.
Just those moments when I am speaking and I feel the communion
happening, those moments when I see your eyes flare up, when I see that
you have understood the point… They give me such tremendous joy that I
cannot think anything can be added to it.
Action, any action done totally, with every fiber of your being in it… For
example, if you bind my hands I cannot speak, although there is no
relationship between hands and speaking. I have tried.
One day, I told a friend who was staying with me, “Tie both my hands.”
He said, “What?”
I said, “Just tie them, and then ask a question.”
He said, “I am always afraid to stay with you, you are crazy. And now if
somebody sees that I have tied your hands, and now I am asking a question
and you are answering it, what will they think?”
I said, “Forget all that. Close the door and do what I say.”
He did, because he had to do it; otherwise I would have thrown him out,
saying, “And being my guest, you cannot even do this simple thing for me?
Then don’t bother me at all, just get lost.” So he tied my hands to two
pillars, and he asked me a question. I tried in every possible way, but my
hands were tied; I could not say anything to him. I simply said, “Please
untie my hands.”
He said, “But I cannot understand what this is all about.”

I said, “It is simply that I was trying to see whether I could speak without
my hands. I cannot.”
What to say about hands… If I put this leg on the other side, and the other
leg on top of it—which is the way I sit in my room when I am not
speaking… If I have to put it under the other leg, then something goes
wrong, then I am not at home. So the way I am sitting, the way my hands
move, is a total involvement. It is not only speaking from a part of me;
everything in me is involved in it. And only then can you find the intrinsic
value of any act. Otherwise you have to live the life of tension, stretched
between here and there, this and that faraway goal.
The pseudo-religions say, “Of course, this life is only a means so you
cannot be involved in it totally; it is only a ladder you have to pass. It is not
something valuable, just a stepping-stone. The real thing is there, far away.”
And so it always remains far away. Wherever you will be, your real thing
will be always far away. So wherever you will be, you will be missing life.
I don’t have a goal.
When I was in the university I used to go for a walk in the morning,
evening, anytime… Morning and evening absolutely, but if there was
another time available, I would also go for a walk then, because the place
and the trees and the road were so beautiful, and so covered with big trees
from both sides that even in the hottest summer there was shadow on the
road.
One of my professors who loved me very much used to watch me: that
some days I would go on this road, some days on that road. There was a
pentagon in front of the gate of the university, five roads going in five
directions, and he lived just near there; his were the last quarters near the
gate. He asked me, “Sometimes you go on this road, sometimes on that
road. Where do you go?”
I said, “I don’t go anywhere. I just go for walking.” If you are going
somewhere then certainly you will go on the same road; but I was not going
anywhere, so it was just whimsical. I just came to the pentagon and I just

used to stand there for a little while. That was making him more puzzled:
how do I figure it out, what do I figure out standing there?
I used to figure out where the wind was blowing. Whichever way the wind
was blowing I would also go; that was my way. “So sometimes,” he would
say, “You have been going on the same road for a week continually;
sometimes you go only one day, and the next day you change. What do you
do there? And how do you decide?”
And I told him, “It is very simple. I stand there and I feel’ which road is
alive—where the wind is blowing. I go with the wind. And it is beautiful
going with the wind. I jog, I run, whatsoever I want to do. And the wind is
there, cool, available. So I just figure it out.”
Life is not going somewhere.
It is just going for a morning walk.
Choose wherever your whole being is flowing, where the wind is blowing.
Move on that path as far as it leads, and never expect to find anything.
Hence I have never been surprised, because I have never been expecting
anything—so there is no question of surprise: everything is surprise. And
there is no question of disappointment: everything is appointment.
If it happens, good; if it does not happen, even better.
Once you understand that moment-to-moment living is what religion is all
about, then you will understand why I say drop this idea of God, heaven
and hell, and all that crap.
Just drop it completely because this load of so many concepts is preventing
you from living moment to moment. Live life in an organic unity. No act
should be partial, you should be involved fully in it.
A Zen story:
A very curious king, wanting to know about what these people go on doing
in the monasteries, asked, “Who is the most famous master?” Finding out

that the most famous master of those days was Nan-in, he went to his
monastery. When he entered the monastery he found a woodcutter. He
asked him, “The monastery is big, where can I find Master Nan-in?”
The man thought with closed eyes for a few moments, and he said, “Right
now you cannot find him.”
The king said, “Why can’t I find him right now? Do you understand that I
am the emperor?”
He said, “That is irrelevant. Whoever you are, that is your business, but I
assure you, you cannot find him right now.”
“Is he out?” asked the king.
“No, he is in,” replied the woodcutter.
The king said, “But is he involved in some work, in some ceremony, or in
isolation? What is the matter?”
The man said, “He is right now cutting wood in front of you. And when I
am cutting wood, I am just a woodcutter. Right now where is Master Nan-
in? I am just a woodcutter. You will have to wait.”
The emperor thought, “This man is mad, simply mad. Master Nan-in
cutting wood?” He went ahead, and left the woodcutter behind. Nan-in
again continued to cut wood. The winter was coming close, and wood had
to be stored. The emperor could wait, but winter wouldn’t wait.
The emperor waited one hour, two hours—and then from the back door
came Master Nan-in, in his master’s robe. The king looked at him. He
looked like the woodcutter, but the king bowed down. The master sat there,
and he asked, “Why have you taken so much trouble to come here?”
The king said, “There are many things, but those questions I will ask later
on. First I want to know: are you the same man who was cutting wood?”
He said, “Now I am Master Nan-in. I am not the same man; the total
configuration has changed. Now here I am sitting as Master Nan-in. You

ask as a disciple, with humbleness, receptivity. Yes, a man very, very
similar to me was cutting wood there, but that was a woodcutter. His name
is also Nan-In.”
The king got so puzzled that he left without asking the questions he had
come to ask. When he went back to his court, his advisers asked what
happened. He said, “What happened it is better to forget about. This Master
Nan-In seems to be absolutely insane! He was cutting wood; he said, ‘I am
a woodcutter and Master Nan-In is not available right now.’ Then the same
man came in a master’s robe and I asked him, and he said, ‘A similar man
was cutting the wood, but he was the woodcutter; I am the master.’”
One of the men in the court said, “You have missed the point of what he
was trying to say to you—that when cutting wood he is totally involved in
it. Nothing is left which can claim to be Master Nan-In; nothing is left out,
he is just a woodcutter.”
And in Zen language, which is difficult to translate, he was saying not
exactly that “I am a woodcutter,” he was saying, “Right now it is wood
cutting not a woodcutter—because there is not even space for the cutter.” It
is simply wood being chopped, and he is so totally in it, it is only wood
cutting: wood cutting is happening. And when he comes as a master, of
course, it is a different configuration. The same parts are now in a different
accord. So with each action you are a different person, if you get totally
involved in it.
Buddha used to say, “It is just as the flame of the candle looks the same, but
is never the same even for two consecutive moments. The flame is
continuously becoming smoke, new flame is coming up. The old flame is
going out, the new flame is coming up. The candle that you had burned in
the evening is not the same candle that you will blow out in the morning.
This is not the same flame that you had started; that has gone far away,
nobody knows where. It is just a similarity of the flame that gives you the
illusion that it is the same flame.”
The same is true about your being. It is a flame. It is a fire.

Each moment your being is changing, and if you get involved totally in
anything then you will see the change happening in you—each moment a
new being, and a new world, and a new experience. Everything suddenly
becomes so full of newness that you never see the same thing again.
Then naturally, life becomes a continuous mystery, a continuous surprise.
On each step a new world opens up, of tremendous meaning, of incredible
ecstasy.
When death comes, death too is not seen as something separate from life. It
is part of life, not an end of life. It is just like other happenings: love had
happened, birth had happened. You were a child, and then childhood
disappeared; you became a young man, and then the young man
disappeared; you became an old man, and then the old man disappeared—
how many things have been happening! Why don’t you allow death also to
happen just like other incidents?
And actually the person who has lived moment to moment lives death too,
and finds that all the moments of life can be put on one side and the one
moment of death can be put on the other side, and still it weighs more. In
every way it weighs more because it is the whole life condensed; and
something more added to it, which was never available to you. A new door
opening, with the whole life condensed: a new dimension opening.
Okay, you can ask your second question….
On the face of American money is the phrase, “In God we trust.” the priests
have lied and said that there is a God. The politicians have lied and said that
the American constitution and civil rights would ensure social justice for
all. How can I now trust in a religionless religion?
I have never asked you to trust in a religionless religion. How can I ask
you?—because that very asking has been religion up to now. To boycott it I
am calling it religionless religion, using an obvious contradiction. But the
reason is clear. Calling it religionless means that I will not ask you for any
faith, any belief, any trust.
If trust arises in you, that is a totally different thing.

The religions ask that you believe in one God, one messiah, one book. I do
not ask you; but how can I prevent you if trust arises in you? Then trust is
nothing but a kind of love. It is not belief, it is not faith, because belief has
to be forced to repress doubts; faith has to be continually indoctrinated in
you. You hear it so many times that slowly, slowly you start forgetting that
you have only heard it, that you don’t know anything about it.
You have a tendency—and a comfortable tendency—to forget your
ignorance and cling to your knowledge. Faith is conditioned knowledge
given by others to you, forced upon you. But slowly, slowly, it goes so deep
in your mind, it becomes part of you. You start thinking it is “my faith.”
Trust is neither.
Nobody can ask for trust, just as nobody can ask for love. Can I ask
anybody, “Love me”? The person will say, “But how?” If love arises, it
arises; if it does not arise then what can be done? Yes, you can pretend, as
the whole world is pretending. Trust can also be pretended if asked for. I am
not asking. I want you to be completely saved from any kind of pretension,
hypocrisy. But if trust arises I cannot help it, you cannot help it. Nobody
can do anything about it if it arises. You suddenly feel a new heartbeat in
you—what can you do?
In my religionless religion, trust is not required. Trust is not demanded, not
ordered, not commanded. It happens. And we are all helpless about it;
nothing can be done about it when it happens. It is so beautiful that who
would like to miss it when it happens?
Yes, the politicians have deceived people, the religions have deceived
people. And I have lived my whole life condemned by all the religions and
all the politicians, for the simple reason that I was exposing them.
My whole life I have been condemning the politicians. I see them as
criminals who are clever enough not to be caught, clever enough to cheat
people by giving them false hopes, phony utopias. We don’t have any
politics here. And we don’t have any religion that they think is religion.
My religion is a way of life. It is not a way of prayer, it is a way of living.
And this phenomenon that is happening here is of the same quality as love.

We love life, and we want to live it in its fullness. Who cares about your
politics and your state? We are interested simply in being left alone.
But these people are strange, they cannot leave us alone. They are afraid,
they are worried. They are suspicious: what is happening, what is going on?
They are not even courageous enough to come here and see; just on rumors,
“public opinion”—and that public has also not come here.! And these
people go on deciding things! And they are very serious people; they are
not doing things out of a sense of humor. And my religious attitude has a
basic quality: a sense of humor. If out of sheer being with me, with my
people, a trust is born … And it is not trust in God, it is not trust in
somebody particular; it is just a quality, unaddressed.
There is no address on the envelope: “In God we trust.” Who are you to
trust in God? On what authority do you trust in God?—you don’t know
God. You are dragging God also to the same status as a dollar, making him
a thing of the marketplace. And you cannot find anything more dirty than
currency, because it moves in so many hands.
I have not touched any note for thirty-five years. It is the dirtiest thing. Not
that I am against money but it is the most dirty thing. All kinds of people…
somebody may have cancer, somebody may have tuberculosis, somebody
may have AIDS, and who knows what he has been doing with his notes?
Anything is possible, because people are so perverted, they can do anything
with bank notes. I said, “I am not going to touch them”—and I stopped
touching them. And on that note you write, “In God we trust”? Please
forgive God and forget all about him.
The trust that arises in my people is simply a quality of their heart; they just
start trusting. It is not trust in something. They start trusting; even when
they are deceived, they trust: knowing that this man has deceived them,
they trust. It is not a question of whom, it is just their aroma.
In the university I had to live for a few days with a roommate. I had never
lived with anybody but there was no space and the vice-chancellor said to
me, “For a few days you manage and I will find some other place for you. I
can understand that you will not like anybody to be in the room, and it is

good for the other fellow also that he is not in your room, because you may
drive him crazy. I will arrange it.”
But it took four, five months before he arranged it. And that man was a very
good boy; he just had one problem—just one, so you cannot say that it was
a big trouble—he was a kleptomaniac. Just for sheer joy he would steal my
things. I had to search for my things in his suitcases, and I would find them,
but I never said anything to him.
He was puzzled. He would use my clothes. When I was not in the room he
would just take anything. He would take my shawl and go for a walk, so
when I came back the shawl would be gone. I would say, “It will come
back, soon it will return.” To save money from being taken by him I used to
deposit it with him and say, “Keep this money, because if I keep it you will
take it anyway. And then it will be difficult to know how much you have
taken and how to ask you for it. It looks awkward. Just take it. It is this
much: you take it!”
He said, “You are clever. This way I have to return all the money whenever
you need it.”
But after four, five months…because whenever and wherever he was, with
whomsoever he lived—his family or friends, or in the hostels—everybody
was condemning him. But I never said anything to him—instead of looking
in my suitcases I just looked into his. It was simple! It was not very
different; my suitcases were in this corner, his suitcases were in that corner.
He said, “You are strange. I have been stealing your things and you never
say anything.”
I said, “It is a very small problem. It can’t create distrust in me for a human
being. And what trouble is there? Rather than going to my suitcase, I simply
go to your suitcase, and in your suitcase I find whatsoever I need.”
He said, “That’s why I was wondering… I go on stealing from you, you
never say anything, and those things disappear from my suitcases again! So
I was thinking that perhaps you also are a kleptomaniac.”

I said, “That is perfectly okay. If you stop taking from my suitcases, I will
stop taking from your suitcases. And remember, in this whole game you
have been losing.”
He said, “What do you mean?”
I said, “I take a few things that are not mine”—because he was stealing
from everywhere, other rooms, professors’ houses; anywhere he would find
any window open, he would jump in. And there was no intention of
stealing, just the joy of it, just the challenge; an opportunity and challenge
that nobody could catch hold of him.
I said, “I will never prevent you. You can go on moving my things, you can
move my whole suitcase under your bed; it doesn’t matter. In fact I am
perfectly happy with you. I am worried now that soon the vice-chancellor is
going to give me a single room. Where will I find a person like you?—
because you provide so many things which I need. And I trust you
perfectly!”
Chapter 9
Imitation Is Your Cremation
You have been saying that disobedience is a religious quality. Does that
mean I have to disobey you, the people in the community around you, and
go against the discipline of sannyas? I often feel like that, and I don’t want
to participate when people are doing the prayer of the gachchhamis ..
I have said that disobedience is a religious quality, but to be disobedient you
need to be very intelligent. To obey…an idiot can do it. All that he has to
say is “Yes sir.” To disobey is not just saying no; that too can be done by an
idiot very easily.
Disobedience needs tremendous intelligence because you are deciding your
life, your future, your destiny.
I have said disobey anything that is imposed on you, against you, against
your will, against your intellect, against your reason, against your being.

Then risk everything and disobey it—because in fact by disobeying it, you
are obeying your inner self. By disobeying it, you are obeying existence.
In other words, by disobeying it you are disobeying the personality and
obeying the individuality.
I have not said that you have to disobey everything—you will go nuts,
unless you are already nuts. I have emphasized disobedience because all the
religions have been emphasizing obedience. Obedience to whom?
Obedience to their God, which is their creation; obedience to the
commandments, which are their creation; obedience to society, convention,
tradition—which are all their vested interests—obedience to the parents, to
the teachers, to the priests.
All the religions have been teaching you obedience; hence, just to
emphasize it clearly before you, I had to say disobey, rebel.
That does not mean that I am against obedience. But the obedience I am for
is a very different phenomenon. It does not come as an imposition on you, it
comes as a flowering of your being. It is your intelligence, your maturity,
your centeredness, your aliveness, your response. You are the source of it;
not Moses, not Mohammed, not Jesus, not me, but you, just you.
But do you know who you are? You know you are a Jew, and you are not.
You know you are a Christian, and you are not. You know you are a Hindu,
and you are not. These are all impositions.
People have been painting on you as if you are a canvas. They are making
your face according to their idea. They want to become in some way ideals
for you, and they want to reduce you to imitators.
There is a great Christian classic, Imitation of Christ , which is respected by
the Christians almost next to the Bible. But it is an ugly book. The very title
of the book shows what it is: Imitation of Christ . You may imitate Christ
for millions of lives; still you will not be a Christ, you will be only an
imitation. And the imitation is not your original face.

The more you succeed in imitating, the more you are failing as far as your
being is concerned. The deeper you go into imitation, the farther away you
are going from yourself; and the return journey is not going to be easy.
It is going to be immensely difficult, because when you were continuously
imitating a certain pattern, you were becoming identified with it. The return
journey means you will have to start killing all that identification. It will
look like committing suicide, as if you are cutting off your own limbs. It is
not going to be just like dropping your clothes, not that easy. It is going to
be like peeling your skin.
It is so difficult that even a very intelligent man like Bertrand Russell
confessed, “My reason says that Gautam Buddha is certainly the greatest
figure in the whole of human history, but although I am not part of any
Christian congregation, although I have completely disassociated myself
from Christian mythology, religion, theology, somewhere I cannot put
Buddha above Christ. With my reason I understand, but as far as my
feelings are concerned Jesus remains higher—and I know he is not.”
Now, a man like Bertrand Russell cannot get rid of a certain conditioning.
He has been told from his very childhood that there has never been anybody
like Jesus. Although he has renounced Christianity consciously, publicly…
He wrote a very famous book, Why I Am Not A Christian , and gave all his
reasons, very valid reasons. Anybody who has a little bit of intelligence can
understand that if what Bertrand Russell is saying is the case, then you
cannot be a Christian either. And that is the case; he has exposed
Christianity completely.
But even after that… And this confession was long after he had written that
book. He had written the book some twenty years before, and this
confession came when he was nearabout eighty-five, absolutely mature. He
remained intelligent to the very last moment of his life. He lived almost a
century; he never became senile. Even at the last moment of his life he was
as intelligent and alive as ever.
He confessed: “As far as my feelings and emotions are concerned, Jesus
somehow hangs above everybody else. And I know perfectly well there is
no comparison of Gautam Buddha with Jesus; Gautam Buddha is far

superior. But that is only intellectual; emotionally Christ still has the grip.”
Although he has said that he is not a Christian, he is still a Christian.
That’s why I say it is very difficult to come back. Going is difficult, but
coming back is far more difficult. Imitation is going to be a difficult thing:
you are trying to be something which you are not meant to be, which is not
your destiny. You are going against the very nature of your being, you are
trying to swim against the current. Yes, it is difficult to imitate—but not so
difficult as when you start coming back to your natural self.
You have lost it somewhere far back. You can’t remember even where you
lost it. You can’t remember where you deviated from yourself. You deviated
in such moments when you were not even aware.
If you remember your past, you will at the most go back to the age of four,
on average. Not all people can go back to the age of four. A few people,
very rare people can go to the age of three. And rarely, once in a while, you
can find a person who can go back to the age of two. It happens only once
in a century that a person can go back to the age of one. And it happens
only once in many centuries that a person can go into the memories of his
mother’s womb.
But your deviation starts even when you are in your mother’s womb,
because whatsoever your mother is doing is affecting you. When you are in
your mother’s womb, your mother’s mind is your mind, her feelings are
your feelings, her emotions are your emotions. If she is angry, something in
you gets angry. If she is happy something in you rejoices.
In the East, psychology is one of the most ancient sciences; in the West it is
just a hundred years old—not even a hundred years old. The oldest name in
western psychology, the ancientmost, is Sigmund Freud, who was alive just
a few years ago. But in the East, in India, psychology goes as far back as
Patanjali—five thousand years. And Patanjali cannot be said to be the
source because he quotes more ancient sources. In China it goes as far back
as Lao Tzu. But Lao Tzu quotes at least five-thousand-year-old sources:
five thousand years before Lao Tzu, who is twenty-five centuries before us.

Eastern psychology says that when the mother is pregnant, those nine
months are the most important period in the life of the child who is not yet
born. In these nine months as much care as possible should be taken. The
mother should not become angry, should not become sexual, should not
become worried, should not become irritated, annoyed. She should be kept
in such a way that the child is not affected at all by her emotions. She
should be almost in a meditative state for all those nine months.
That’s the recommendation of Eastern psychology, that the mother for nine
months should be continuously in a meditative state; that’s the only way to
save the child from becoming an imitator. Otherwise neither the mother
knows the child, nor the child knows himself, and he becomes an imitator.
This is the situation in the womb—what to say about when the child comes
out of the womb. Then, at every step everybody is determined to give a
certain shape, a certain color, a certain character, a certain career to you—
and with all good intentions. The path to hell is paved with good intentions.
Nobody is your enemy, but they all prove to be your enemies.
There is one statement of Gautam Buddha which Buddhists try to avoid
because they don’t have the understanding to explain it. And it is so clear,
they cannot even explain it away. The statement that Buddha makes is,
“unless you hate your father, your mother, your brother, you cannot follow
me.” Now, what kind of statement is this?—“Unless you hate your father,
your mother, your family, you cannot follow me.”
The Buddhists don’t quote it. In no Buddhist monastery does anybody even
give a sermon on it. Monks just pass it by quickly. How to explain it? A
man like Buddha who teaches love, non-violence, is saying to hate your
mother and father.
Then Jesus certainly seems to be far superior: “Love your enemy; not only
the enemy, love your neighbor”—which is certainly far more difficult. The
enemy is far away and once in a while maybe there is some trouble, but the
neighbor is a twenty-four hour trouble, and just a pain in the neck
continually, twenty-four hours a day. And Jesus says, “Love your neighbor
just like yourself.”

Naturally if you compare these statements Jesus will look far more religious
than Buddha. But before I say anything else, let me quote Bodhidharma,
who defeated his own master, Buddha, in every possible way. And that is
the only joy of a real master, that he should be defeated by his disciple. Of
course, they were not contemporaries; there was at least eleven hundred
years’ difference between Buddha and Bodhidharma.
Bodhidharma says: “First go and kill your father and mother, then come to
me. First, be finished with your father and your mother and then come to
me. Otherwise go somewhere else—I am not for you.” How you are going
to explain it? And I say to you that what Jesus says is just hocus-pocus.
What Bodhidharma is saying is pure psychology. He is not saying that you
should kill your father and mother, but in a certain way you have to kill the
father that has entered you, and the mother that has entered you. That is
your family inside, which is surrounding your being, which won’t allow any
ray of light to reach your innermost corner. The crowd has gathered there,
and because of that crowd the inner center is in darkness.
Bodhidharma brings Buddha’s statement to its logical conclusion. Why just
hate?—be completely finished, because hating is again a relationship, just
like love. If you love somebody, you remember him; you cannot forget him
—you are not supposed to forget the person you love. Sometimes you may
forget the person you love, but you cannot forget the person you hate.
Although all the so-called moral teachers have been telling you to forgive
and forget, you can neither forgive nor can you forget. Perhaps you can
forgive, with effort, but how can you forget? Then you will remember two
things: first, that you hated him and second, that you have forgiven him—
now you will remember even more. So what have you done?
You cannot forget your enemy. It is a relationship, a very close, very
intimate relationship. And that’s why it is very easy for lovers to become
haters, friends to become enemies, enemies to become friends. It is very
easy because both are relationships: just a little turn, a little change in the
situation…
For example, in the Second World War America and Russia became friends,
great friends, fighting together hand in hand. They were enemies before,

they are enemies afterwards. Strange! But the situation took such a turn…
Adolf Hitler did a miracle, he was a man worth counting. All the miracles
of Jesus are nothing compared to what Adolf Hitler did: he turned
Americans and Russians into friends. Both flags flying together by courtesy
of Adolf Hitler! And the moment Adolf Hitler was finished, the friendship
evaporated immediately, instantly. They were enemies again.
You could see the Berlin wall… Half of Berlin remained with the Russians
—they could not even wait for Berlin to become whole again. Adolf Hitler
gone, the friendship finished. When the magician is gone, the magic is
finished; the enemies are again enemies. But enemies can become friends,
and without becoming friends you cannot become enemies. First you have
to be friends, that is the first step; then only can you become enemies—that
is something higher, more evolved. Perhaps you have brought your
friendship to its logical conclusion.
So Buddha, by saying hate your father and mother, also does not mean your
father and mother, but the father and mother that have penetrated you, that
have become like a thick layer of personality in you. But he was a very
sophisticated man, the son of a king, very educated. Bodhidharma is very
raw; he simply calls a spade a spade. Why bother about sophistication, hate,
and this and that—simply kill. And I say to you, without killing you cannot
get out of the prison.
So when I say disobey, I mean disobey everything that is not coming from
your own self.
Obey that which is your nature.
Now, if listening to me say disobey, you disobey, that is obedience—can’t
you see it? Before listening to me you were obeying; now because I have
said disobey, you have to disobey. This is disobedience? Then what is
obedience? This will be obedience!
You have not understood me at all. You have just heard that I am saying
disobey, so now you have to disobey me, disobey the commune, refuse to
participate in activities here. And I have been receiving letters continually:

“Osho, you are teaching disobedience, and in the commune we have to
follow a certain discipline.” It seems contradictory.
But who has forced you to be part of the commune? It is your choice. You
were not born in the commune. It is your choice, and a difficult choice,
because by being part of my commune you are going against everybody
else around you. You are taking a risk. It is dangerous to be part of my
commune. It is dangerous to be in association with me. You have chosen it.
I don’t convert anybody; I try my best to dissuade you from becoming a
sannyasin—what more can I do? I give you no consolation.
There is one question: “Osho, You have taken God away, now there is only
existence. Existence means nature; it is harsh, it is indifferent, it doesn’t
care. If there is no God then I feel very much afraid.”
Naturally, you will feel very much afraid because your God was nothing but
a way to hide your fear. It was fear-oriented. It was just to keep your fear
suppressed. Take God away and fear springs up. It is there; even when you
are putting the rock of God on the spring, it is still there. You know
perfectly well that it is there, alive, ready to burst forth any moment—just
waiting for its chance, an opportunity.
Your whole life you have believed in God, and I have just said that there is
no God—and that’s enough! Perhaps for fifty years you have believed in
God, found consolation in it, then just an ordinary man like me says there is
no God, and fifty years conditioning disappears and fear arises! Whom are
you trying to deceive?
If I can do this, anybody can do this. Just anybody meeting you on the road
can whisper in your ear, “There is no God”—finished! Your God is dead!
Your fear is more alive than ever. Hence all the religions teach, their
scriptures teach, “Don’t listen to anybody who does not belong to your
faith.”
In India, Jaina scriptures say that if you are being followed by a mad
elephant and you come close to a Hindu temple—although you could be
saved if you take refuge in the temple and close the doors—don’t go inside
the temple. It is better to die on the road under the mad elephant’s feet,

because who knows?—in the Hindu temple you may hear something which
will spoil your faith. And the same, exactly the same, is repeated in the
Hindu scriptures: “Don’t go in a Jaina temple, because sometimes a single
sentence coming from an antagonistic religion may spoil your whole life’s
effort.” But this is strange.
Just a few days ago an old man came here because he wanted to sit close to
me at least once. He has been coming here for almost one year, has been
doing all kinds of therapy groups, meditations, and is immensely interested
in becoming a sannyasin—but unfortunately he is a billionaire. The family,
the company of which he is the chairman… He is afraid of all those people
—the board members, the company, the family.
They give millions of dollars every year in donations, but of course those
donations go to the faith in which he was born. This time he was wavering
between to be or not to be. Finally he decided that it was better, before he
takes sannyas, to go and tell the family and the whole board of directors.
Rather than afterwards, it was better to say it before. So he went. Now, he
must be at least sixty, not less than that—not somebody immature who can
be easily converted, programmed, deprogrammed. But you will be
surprised: his family immediately went to a deprogrammer. The first thing,
hearing his ideas they were shocked, they were angry; they could not
believe that a man of sixty years old who earns one thousand million dollars
per year can be so easily converted by a cult. He has to be deprogrammed.
These people are not special; it’s just the common mind. And the
deprogrammer suggested, of course, the right thing to do. He said, “He is
not a child so you have to be very careful. You are not to be angry, you are
not to show that you are against his new ideology, because your anger and
your clear disappointment in him will take him farther away from you. You
have to be very supportive, very loving.”
The deprogrammer is really cunning but he understands one thing, that a
sixty-year-old man cannot be treated like a child, that you deprogram him in
two days. And we have not programmed him at all. We have not tried to
make him become a sannyasin, he was asking to become a sannyasin. Now
the family is pretending to be loving and very supportive. And the old man

finds it very strange. The message has come, “Very strange things are
happening. My family has never been so loving.”
But deep down they are all boiling inside. I don’t think that by their
lovingness and supportiveness, which is all phony and American, the man
can be prevented from coming here. In fact he will think—which the
deprogrammer has not thought about—that my ideology is so beautiful that
just hearing about it the family has become so loving and so supportive. It
would have been perfectly right to go as a sannyasin. And next time he is
going to become a sannyasin.
But they will make every effort: this is just trying the first deprogrammer. If
it doesn’t work they may try saying, “This man is mad, he cannot be in a
responsible post like the chairman of a company. He should be put into a
mental asylum or into some nursing home where he needs to be treated
psychiatrically.” They will not leave him so easily. That’s why I said
unfortunately he is a billionaire. If he were a poor man, the family would
have been happy: “Get lost. Who cares! It is good that we get rid of you.
Why have you come back? You should have become a sannyasin there.”
I have not given you any discipline. The questioner says, “…the discipline
of sannyas.” Can’t you understand a little bit of humor? What discipline of
sannyas have I given to you? That you have to wear red clothes—does that
mean anything? It is simply to annoy the old traditional sannyasins, just to
give them a good headache. And that’s what we were doing in India,
because I had thousands of sannyasins and it was becoming difficult for
people to decide who was my sannyasin, and who was the old traditional
sannyasin.
They would even touch the feet of my sannyasins. But when they looked at
my picture on the mala , they were shocked! That mala and picture are just
to shock people. What discipline have I given to you? You don’t know
discipline. You should go and look in a Trappist monastery and then you
will understand what discipline is.
I am reminded of a story. In a Trappist monastery you enter for ever; you
cannot get out unless you are thrown out. Unless you become a nuisance
and the monastery decides to throw you out, you cannot get out on your

own. That freedom is not allowed; about that, you have to decide before
you enter. You can take your time, but once you enter the monastery it is for
your whole life, it is lifelong. Only your dead body will come out of the
monastery.
This man entered the monastery, perhaps the most orthodox in the whole
world. The monks remain absolutely silent. Only one time can they speak,
after three years. After each three years they have the right to speak once, if
they have any complaint or any difficulty or any problem.
This man was suffering continually for three years because he had no
mattress, so he was just sleeping on the naked floor, and it was really cold.
Even his bones started hurting. But you had to wait three years before you
could say, “I need a mattress.”
After three years all the monks of the monastery gathered and the chief
abbot asked them, “If anybody has anything to say, he can say it. For three
years again there will be no meeting; nothing is to be said.”
This man waited, then he said, “I need a mattress.” Now, do you think for
three years he was thinking of Jesus Christ?—only the mattress…and
waiting and waiting, looking at the calendar for three years.
The chief abbot said, “Okay. For three years, now, no more complaints. In
three years time you can speak again. A mattress will be provided.”
The mattress was provided but it was too big, and his cell was too small, so
that while they were bringing in the mattress they broke the glass of the
door. The mattress was in but the glass was broken so the wind started
coming in, the rain started coming in, and now three years… The poor man.
At least before he could stretch his body; now he was sitting in a corner, the
rain was coming in, the snow was coming in.
And what do you think?—that for these three years he was praying? Yes, he
was praying that these three years should pass, “And if I am still alive…” It
looked as if it would be difficult to be able to survive three years, but he
survived. Man has an immense capacity to adjust to any kind of
circumstances. Even in a Trappist monastery people survive. He survived.

And after three years, again the gathering. He came running to the
gathering, and even before the chief abbot had asked, he raised his hand.
The chief abbot was very angry. He said, “You are the same man again!
Any complaint?”
He said, “For three years I have been suffering rain, wind, snow. My glass
was broken when the mattress was brought in. The mattress was big, and
the door was small.”
The chief said, “Okay. Now for three years be silent. Your door will be
mended.”
The door was mended. The three years he had survived, but the mattress
had not survived. It was stinking, and because the door had been open the
stink was not so much. Now the door was closed and no air was coming
in… And the mattress had become utterly rotten because for three years
every kind of hazard that had been possible… Now the man could not
breathe! It became so… And for three years!
He said, “Now these are my last days. I will not be able to raise my hand
again.” But he survived. Again he survived, because the adjustment
capacity of man is really tremendous. If you are living in a stinking room,
sitting on a rotten mattress, soon you will not smell it because your
sensitivity to smell will be dulled, will be killed by the stink, the continuous
stink. Your nose is not so strong, it is not made of steel, and very small parts
in your nose have the capacity to smell. If there was this continuous warfare
against your capacity to smell your nose would become dead.
He survived, but when three years had passed he ran as fast as he could.
And before he could raise his hand, the abbot said, “Stop! Since you have
come I have never heard anything but complaints. Get out! I don’t want to
listen anymore.”
He said, “But I have not said anything yet. Just please listen to me.”
The abbot said, “This type of people are not acceptable in a Trappist
monastery. I have not heard anything from you in nine years except
complaints, complaints, complaints.”

They threw the poor man out.
And I have not given you any discipline that you have to disobey. Yes, three
things I have done…
I have given you a new name so that you can start disidentifying yourself
from your old personality, and you can begin anew, as if a new child is
born.
I have given you red clothes to wear, just to destroy the monopoly of
traditional sannyasins on red clothes—they are nobody’s monopoly. And it
was just a mockery of the sannyas that has existed in the East for thousands
of years. I was saying that just by changing your clothes to red you don’t
become a sage.
I have given you a mala , because all the ancient sannyasins of all religions
have used a rosary for prayer. I have not given it to you for any prayer. It
was an old method of counting. For example in Hinduism: how many times
you take God’s name is your account in the other world. But to remember
“Ram, Ram, Ram…” You will forget. But to continue to remember, “One
Ram, two Ram, three Ram” will be a disturbance. And “one, two, three,
four, five” will grow to “one thousand and four…one million, two million,
three million…” You are going to get lost somewhere and forget the
counting. Then it will be a real loss because God will ask, “How many
times…?”
So the rosary was a method: you count, you just go on, you say “Ram” and
you slip one bead down. You needn’t say “One.” You say “Ram,” and you
slip the second bead down. You don’t say “Ram two, Ram three,” you just
go on slipping the beads down. And it was good also because you could say
it inside with nobody knowing about it. In India they have a small bag
hanging around the hand, and the rosary is inside; so even walking on the
road they can go on counting.
You will see shopkeepers selling things, and their hand is in their rosary
bag: they are counting. With the customer they are talking but deep down
they are saying, “Ram, Ram, Ram, Ram,” and with the rosary they are

counting. In between they will say to the wife: “The beggar!” and their
rosary continues.
It was just to mock all these idiots that I put the rosary around you. It is not
a prayer method for you, it is just a mockery of the whole tradition. And
then I put an ordinary man’s picture—anybody’s picture will do. That
annoys them even more.
But this world is strange. Sometimes things can happen which you had
never expected or even dreamed of Just the other day my secretary brought
a letter from the Punjab—because in the Punjab there has been great
trouble, with Hindus and Sikhs continually fighting and killing each other.
Thousands of people have been killed.
In one small village there were two Sikhs, both our sannyasins, but the
whole village was Hindu. These two Sikhs were teachers in the school. The
principal suggested to them, “Don’t come out of your home; and be careful,
very careful because the whole village is mad. The whole of the Punjab is in
madness, and you are only two—the crowd can kill you.”
And that day, the whole day the crowd was moving around the city to find
some Sikh to kill. They knew those two Sikhs were there, but where had
they disappeared to? By the night as the sun set and darkness came over,
those two Sikhs thought the crowds must have disappeared. The whole day
they had been hiding in the house, so they thought to just come out for a
little bit and breathe fresh air.
When they came out, immediately—as if the crowd had been waiting,
hiding just nearby, knowing that they were hiding in the house—from both
sides the crowd rushed towards them. One of them escaped into a nearby
forest; in the darkness it was difficult to find him. But the other one was
caught. He has written the letter to thank me, because when the crowd took
hold of him, somebody in the crowd said, “This is not a Sikh, this is an
Osho sannyasin!” So they said, “It is useless to kill this man—he is no
longer a Sikh.”
He writes to me, “Osho, you saved me; otherwise they would have cut me
into pieces.”

I have never thought that somebody would be saved by me, but strange
things in this world always happen! This is simply a strange thing. You can
be killed in my name, but you cannot be saved. It was a strange situation:
they were going to kill a Sikh, but seeing his orange clothes and the mala
with my photo, they said, “This man is already no longer a Sikh. To kill him
is pointless.” And they left.
But basically I had put that picture there so that it hangs around your neck
and irritates everybody, and you cannot go anywhere without being noticed.
One of my sannyasins in Mumbai… He became a disciple, changed his
clothing, and after two, three days he came back and said, “I am in a real
trouble. Will you give sannyas to my wife too? I have brought her.”
I asked, “Why?”
He said, “The problem is, wherever I go with her people say, ‘What kind of
sannyasin is this? Sannyasins are not supposed to move around with
women.’ And I cannot say that she is my wife, because if I say that, they
will kill me. A sannyasin having a wife? So it is very awkward; what to do?
It is better you give sannyas to her.”
I said, “I will give sannyas to her but this won’t solve the problem. Try it.” I
gave sannyas to his wife. After two days he was back. He said, “You were
right. Yesterday in the train…” It was a local train; he takes the train to
work in his office and goes back. It was a holiday so he had come with his
wife and child. A crowd gathered, and they asked, “Whose child is this?”—
because in Mumbai children are being stolen. In all the big cities of India
children are being stolen. Then they are crippled, blinded, and they are
made beggars. And there are gangs: a certain man who feeds them and
takes all their earnings in the evening. He feeds them, he gives them
clothes, he gives them shelter. But unless they are blinded, crippled, their
legs cut off or their hands cut off, who is going to give them money? The
more crippled and the more miserable they look, the better are their chances
for begging, and the more money they bring in.
So in every big place children are being stolen. And they end up in some
gang where there are hundreds of children. The police know; the police take

their own part of the money. The police do not prevent the children from
begging on the streets; rather, they protect them. In fact they help the owner
of these children so that these children cannot escape anywhere.
In fact these children cannot escape because they have been blinded,
crippled—where can they escape to? Who will look after them? They don’t
know where their father is, their mother is, or even how to return to their
homes—because if they were caught in Kolkatta, they would be used in
Mumbai. If they were caught in Mumbai, they would be used in Chennai.
So they don’t know where they come from or where they are right now.
They cannot escape, but the police still keep an eye out so that nobody gets
caught. Everybody has his share, except that child. And if he comes back
from begging one day without any money, then he gets beaten. So he has to
come with it. He cannot try to hide some money from the owner, because he
knows how much a child earns.
The owner goes on walking around and looking to see how much this child
will have earned by the end of the evening. So tentatively he knows that this
boy is bound to come with ten rupees, fifteen rupees. And if he comes with
only two rupees then he gets beaten. And where can he hide the money?
That money is found immediately.
So a crowd gathered and they asked, “You are both sannyasins; this woman
is a sannyasin, you are a sannyasin. In the first place, why are a woman and
a man sannyasin together? That is not allowed. In the second place, this
child—from where did you get this child?”
They said, “This is our child.” They had to say it. And people started
getting ready to beat them: “This is your child? You are a sannyasin and
you have a child?”
Somehow they tried to explain, showed the mala, and said, “We are not old,
traditional sannyasins.”
Somebody in the crowd knew about me. He said, “Leave them. They are
not your type of sannyasins. They belong to a different kind of sannyas.”

From the station they came directly to me. They said, “Give sannyas to our
child also, because without it we will be caught again. We are poor people
and anybody can start beating us and can create trouble for us.” I had to
give sannyas to the child too!
It was not a discipline; it was simply a revolt. I wanted to show the
sannyasins of India, who are in millions, that just by changing the clothes or
having a rosary it does not mean that you have become a saint. I can create
millions of saints like them without any trouble. And I have created them!
The only thing that you can call a discipline is meditation. And it is not an
order from me that you have to meditate. I explain to you what meditation
is. If it appeals to your reason, if something clicks in you, if a desire arises
in you to explore this dimension of meditation, then it is not that you are
following my idea, you are following your own intelligence. And if it does
not appeal to you, of course you should not do it.
The questioner has used the word prayer to describe the gachchhamis , the
chant that is done here. “It is not prayer. A prayer is always to beg for
something. That’s actually the meaning of the word prayer , praying for
something: “Give us, Lord, our daily bread,” or whatsoever it is, but “Give
us something. You are the giver, and we are the beggar. You are
compassionate, and we are in need of your compassion; save us. This life is
miserable, this existence is suffering, take us out of this wheel of life and
death.” Different religions, different prayers… But everybody is asking for
something.
You cannot call our gachchhamis “prayer.” It is not; because what do you
say in the gachchhamis ? “I go to the feet of the awakened one; I go to the
feet of the commune of the awakened one; I go to the feet of the ultimate
truth of the awakened one.”
You are declaring something, you are not praying. It is a declaration, and a
determination—“I go the feet of the awakened one”—a determination to
drop the ego, a declaration, “From now on, to be awakened is going to be
my whole effort, my whole involvement, my whole commitment; I am not
going to live an unconscious life anymore.” It is not a prayer.

In my vision there is no place for prayer because there is no place for God.
To whom can you pray?—there is no one. The sky is absolutely empty. You
are simply wasting your time and throwing nonsense words into the
atmosphere, crowding the atmosphere with meaningless words.
You must remember: these words never die. Once uttered, a word goes on
resounding just like a pebble thrown in a lake: waves start moving towards
the farther away shore. But this existence has no shores, no banks, no
boundaries. Once you say something it is going to remain forever. It will go
on resounding farther and farther away. It will touch other planets, it will
touch other stars; it will go on moving and moving.
Now we know—before the invention of radio we had no idea—that
something said in Washington is passing just by your side. Now you know
because we have discovered how to catch hold of it. Whatsoever they are
creating is already passing all the stations of the world. Of course they are
creating very strong vibrations. They go on moving around you; you just
have to attune your radio to a certain wavelength, then on that wavelength
whatsoever is uttered will be caught.
It is true about us too. Whatsoever we are saying is not very strong, but it
never dies, the sound continues. One day we will find a way to catch hold
of sounds which were uttered by different people in the past—because each
person has a different vibe, a different frequency. If we can get hold of the
frequency of Krishna, then what he really said in the Gita five thousand
years ago, and whether it was said at all or not, will be caught again. And I
am certain that this big book, the Gita, could not possibly have been written
in the situation in which it was said to have been.
Two armies facing each other—they are just waiting for the signal and they
will start slaughtering each other. And Arjuna says to his charioteer,
Krishna, “Take me in front.” He is the chief warrior of one side. Seeing all
the people there, his friends, his relatives… The other party was nobody
else but his cousin-brothers, and they had all grown up in the same house,
in the same palace, they were taught by the same man. Dronacharya, the
man who had taught both parties the art of archery, was there on the other
side: his own master.

On this side everybody was related to those on that side. On that side
everybody was related to those on this side: it was a family quarrel. Arjuna
freaked out. He simply said to Krishna, “I will not fight this war. This is not
war, this is simply suicide. These are all our people. Whosoever dies will
bring tears to my eyes. My father’s father, my grandfather, is standing there.
My master who has taught me, who has brought me up to be the greatest
archer in the world, he is on the other side. No, I cannot fight. I would
rather renounce the world and become a sannyasin and go to the
Himalayas.”
Now, this is the situation. This big book is a dialogue in which Arjuna goes
on asking questions and Krishna goes on answering them. For me to
comment on it took almost—Taru, how many years?—perhaps three years:
twelve volumes, one thousand pages each. In this situation it doesn’t seem
to be likely that this big sermon… In eighteen days the whole war was
finished; in eighteen days the whole Gita cannot be finished! So perhaps he
had spoken a few words and later on it is just elaboration, and more and
more was added to it to clarify and simplify and to make it understandable.
But one day it is possible that we may catch hold of Krishna—or Jesus
giving his sermon on the mountain—because no sound ever dies; once it is
uttered it remains forever. Yes, it will become weaker and weaker and
weaker and weaker, and you will need more and more forceful, forcible,
stronger receivers to catch hold of it. And of course it will be a tower of
Babel, because millions of people have been speaking for millions of years
and all their words will be mixed.
But there is a possibility… It is just as your fingerprints are yours alone:
they have never existed before and there never will be a possibility for them
to exist in the future. You fingerprints are simply your fingerprints. Your
sound prints are also simply your sound prints; sooner or later we will be
able to sort them out. And once we get your sound print, your frequency,
then whatsoever you have said in your whole life can be reproduced.
You will be surprised to know that Mahavira is the only man in the whole of
history who has said, “Don’t say anything which you would not like to be
associated with you forever, because whatsoever you say is going to be
eternal.” He is the only man, but what he is saying certainly has a

tremendous insight. His reason for not saying bad words, ugly words, is
very scientific, not religious. He is saying it because those words will
remain always; they will be your footprints in time. Don’t leave anything
ugly behind you.
When you declare, “ Buddham sharanam gachchhami —I go to the feet of
the awakened one,” you are not saying a prayer. You are simply declaring to
existence, to yourself, your intention: “I want to drop my ego.”
Hence, gachchhami — gachchhami simply means “going.” The English
word go comes from the Sanskrit word gachchh . You will be surprised that
the Sanskrit word for cow is gau , because the cow was very much loved by
the Hindus, worshipped as a mother, thought to be holy. The movement of
the cow—cow is pronounced gau—his movement is called “Gachchh.” And
from gachchh comes the English word.
“Going to the feet” needs one absolutely necessary condition: that you drop
the ego. With the ego you cannot go to the feet of the buddha, the awakened
one. And by “the awakened one,” we are not saying any particular person.
We are simply saying that because the quality of awareness is the same, all
the awakened ones become the same when they are awakened: there is no
difference at all. Awakening is simply awakening. So we go to the feet of
whosoever is awakened, wherever he is awakened—in the past, in the
present or in the future.
It is a decision to drop the ego. It is a declaration that: “Existence, remain
my witness, I am going to the feet of the awakened one. Let me be
reminded if I forget.” That’s why it has to be repeated. The more you repeat
it, the better, because the more it becomes a determination, the more it
becomes a clear perception of what it means.
But to go to the feet of the awakened one is not very difficult. It is very
easy. The very presence of the awakened one will create in you the desire to
go to his feet. It is not something literal, that you have to go to his feet. It
simply means that you start feeling a kind of surrender. The surrender is not
asked; if it is asked, disobey. If the surrender happens to you, obey; it is
your own feeling, your own authentic experience. But it is easy, hence the
second gachchhami : “ Sangham sharanam gachchhami .”

It is easy to go to the feet of the awakened one, it is a little difficult to go to
the feet of the commune of the awakened one, because in the commune all
will not be awakened. Many will be fast asleep and snoring; many will be
even deeper in sleep than you. Now, the ego will feel it more difficult to go
to the feet of these people. That means you will have to drop the ego now
even more determinedly. Perhaps in the first gachchhami you had only
dropped a few leaves of your ego. In the second you will have to drop the
whole tree.
The third is even more difficult, but for a different reason. “ Dhammam
sharanam gachchhami —I go to the feet of the ultimate truth of the
awakened one.” What it is that the awakened people have experienced, they
have not said; it is inexpressible. They have all remained silent about it.
Where are you going to find the feet of the ultimate truth? And in your state
of unawareness, in your state of unconsciousness, in what direction are you
going to search? And not knowing where to surrender, to whom to
surrender, what to surrender, it becomes even more difficult for the ego.
You will even have to bring the roots of the tree out from the ground; they
are hiding underground. Even if the tree has fallen, the tree can again grow
from the roots. These are simple declarations—and they have to be your
declarations, they can’t be my declarations.
But listening to me saying that disobedience is a quality of religiousness,
immediately the desire to disobey arises in you. And you have listened to
many things from me, but never before has any desire like this arisen.
Certainly deep down you want to disobey.
Perhaps you have forced yourself into obedience. Then you have done
wrong; then this is not the place for you. Then you have simply trapped
yourself in something which has not come out of your decision. Perhaps
you have imitated some other people—perhaps your friend was becoming a
sannyasin, and you became a sannyasin. Perhaps you were impressed by my
words, impressed by my reasoning. But your sannyas has not arisen from
your deepest core; otherwise after listening to me say that disobedience is a
religious quality, you would have waited a little and thought about it.

You should have asked, “Then what is obedience? Is not obedience also a
religious quality?” That would have been the right question. I am
continually giving you the right answer to the wrong question, but nothing
else can be done. I can understand you can’t ask the right question and I
can’t give you a wrong answer; so what to do? This way it goes on. You go
on asking the wrong question. But I don’t care much about your question: I
go on answering what I want to answer. Your question is just an excuse.
Obedience is a greater religious quality than disobedience.
Disobedience is only for the beginners who are just starting to learn how to
walk—wobbling. Disobedience is a religious quality for those who are
much too attached to their personality, their conditioning, their
programming. Disobedience is a technique for you to deprogram yourself,
so that you become clean of all Christianity, Judaism, Hinduism,
Mohammedanism. You simply come clean out of all that. You come out just
simple, yourself, innocent. Then obedience is the quality of religion.
Then comes the time to obey; but first learn to disobey. Disobey is a
negative word. It is simply to cut all the crap from you, to burn all the
rubbish in you. It is a negative process. But it is only the beginning. When
this negative process is complete and you have burned all the crap, and you
are unburdened and free and ready to fly, then obedience is the quality of
religion. But that is a higher quality, a far more conscious quality.
But you don’t obey anybody else. You now simply obey your being.
Wherever it leads you, go fearlessly, in freedom.
To be with me you have to disobey all that has been taught to you. I have
not taught you anything. I have not said to you, “Do this, don’t do that.” I
am not bothered about details, I am simply concerned with the
fundamentals; to make clear to you that these are the fundamentals. Now it
is up to you what you want to do with these fundamentals. You can turn
your back and go anywhere you like, and it is perfectly okay with me. But
when you understand the fundamentals you cannot turn your back on them.
It is not possible; in the very nature of things it is impossible.

Once you see a certain truth you cannot do anything other than obey it. But
it has to be your seeing, your perception, your realization.
Begin with disobedience. It is always necessary to begin with the negative,
with the no. If you want to reach the yes, you will have to say a thousand
no’s to find one yes in life. Because your whole life has been ruined by so
many people, you will have to say no to all those people. And after a
thousand no’s, perhaps you may find yourself in a state where you can say
yes.
But that yes will come from the deepest core of your being, and it will bring
out a fragrance in you.
Chapter 10
Jesus—The Only Savior who Nearly Saved Himself
Yesterday we were met by five bible-packing Christians who had come to
save us. What do you say? Can we be saved?
These idiots are all over the world. The very idea of saving somebody is
violent. It is interfering, trespassing on somebody’s life. Nobody has the
right to save anybody.
He can save himself… But there is a psychological reason why these Bible-
packing people start saving others: they are not confident that they are
saved. To gain that confidence they have to shout loudly, make a noise,
make efforts to save others. And certainly they will find a few fools who are
ready to be saved. That will give them tremendous confidence, but there is
no base. Their very life is just the life of a fanatic who thinks he is saved
because he believes in Jesus Christ.
Life needs transformation, and transformation is a great work upon oneself.
It is not a child’s play: “Just believe in Jesus Christ, go on reading the Bible
again and again, and you are saved.” Saved from what? Saved from
transformation!

So if you meet these people again, please tell them, “You have come to the
right place. Here we unsave people who have fallen into the mistaken idea
that they are saved. We unsave them again. We pull them back to the earth
from their foggy mind.”
But the responsibility is not with these poor people—they are pitiable—the
responsibility goes back to Jesus himself. He was trying to save people.
And what signs was he providing them? No signs, no idea how they can
change their lifestyle, how they can find their true being, how they can
discover the truth that they are carrying within themselves. No structure, no
process, no methodology is given. All that is required is: “Believe that I am
the only begotten son of God, that I am the messiah,” and that’s enough.
Is transformation of life so cheap that you believe in anybody and just by
believing…? You are not losing anything, and Jesus is not giving you
anything but a sort of hallucination that you are saved.
Not a single person has been saved by Jesus. And I don’t think he was able
to save himself. The way he behaves, the way he talks all show that it is not
the flavor of an awakened being; something is missing. His ego is
tremendously strong. Yes, it has a religious jargon about it, the “only
begotten son of God”—but any madman can say that.
What evidence does he bring? It is because of this that the Christians go on
emphasizing the miracles of Jesus, because without those miracles what
evidence has he got? And those miracles were never performed, because if
such things were performed, it is impossible that Jewish sources would not
have mentioned them. He would have been accepted as the messiah.
The Jews never accepted him, not even today. His contemporaries have to
be asked why not a single authoritative source even mentions his name.
And if such a miracle man was around he would be the only news for
centuries, but not even his contemporaries bothered about him. And his
contemporaries have given a clear-cut indication by crucifying this man.
Why did they crucify him?
People have not inquired into the incident, why the Jews crucified Jesus.
They crucified him for the simple reason that this man is mad, and is

pretending something which will misguide millions of people. It is better to
be finished with him. He is not the messiah because the Jews have criteria
for who is the messiah, who will save the whole world from suffering, from
misery, from anguish. The same idea that Jesus gives to the Christians, he
has got from his ancestors. He is a perfect Jew.
What the Jews were saying was about some messiah somewhere far away,
happening in the coming history, in the future. Jesus’ fault was only this: he
started saying, “I am that man you have been waiting for. I am that hope
you have been desiring. I have come.” And they really laughed at him—
anybody would have laughed at him.
The hope of the Jews has to remain a hope. Whenever anybody will try to
say, “I have come to fulfill the hope,” he will be crucified, for the simple
reason that he is taking away the hope of a whole race. They are living on
that hope; that is their only light, their only guiding star.” And this
carpenter’s son—ignorant, illiterate, good-for-nothing-wants to prove that
he is that hoped for messiah: “This man has to be finished off!”
And there was one more reason why they crucified him: “If on the cross he
can manage to provoke God to help him, then we will be able to see
whether he is the messiah or not—God will save him.” If God is not even
bothering about saving his own son on the cross, then what to say about
others? And if Jesus cannot provoke God to save him, how can he provoke
God to save others?
The crucifixion was going to be a criterion. Thousands of people had
gathered; it was not an everyday thing. Only once in a while a madman
declares such a thing. And they were laughing and joking and throwing
stones at him and spitting on him.
They had put a crown of thorns on him, they had forced him to carry his
own cross. Three times he fell on the way; the cross was too heavy. He
could not carry his own cross and he was trying to carry the crosses of the
whole of humanity, trying to save the whole of humanity, taking all their
miseries, their anguishes, their sufferings. And whenever he fell people
laughed, and they said, “You can’t carry even your own cross, how you are
going to carry the crosses of everybody else?”

And on the cross they had written “King of the Jews,” just as a joke,
because this man was constantly talking about the kingdom of God, and
saying, “Those who believe in me will be saved. At the judgment day, I will
be there with God indicating the people who are my people: sorting out
people into those who have to be saved, and those who have not to be
saved. And I am going to be your witness. The judgment is in my hand.”
On the cross he himself feels shaken up. He cries to God, “Have you
forgotten me? Have you forsaken me?”—because he sees that the
crucifixion is happening and there is no miracle. He looks upwards towards
the sky…that God will be descending on a white cloud, angels will be
coming, singing “Alleluia, Alleluia.”
But no angels are coming, no God is seen anywhere; the sky is completely
clear, not even a cloud. And the crowd is shouting and rejoicing and
dancing. They are hilarious, saying, “Look at the fool! He was going to
save the whole world!”
And he feels thirsty, obviously. Walking a long way, carrying a heavy cross
in the hot sun—and the crucifixion happened on a hill, Golgotha—he was
thirsty, and on the cross as blood started oozing out from his hands and
feet…
The Jewish crucifixion was the most cruel way of killing a man that has
been practiced anywhere. It took sometimes thirty-six to forty-eight hours
for a man to die. An electric chair is far more non-violent. You simply sit in
it and you are gone—just a switch. Perhaps you may not even hear the
click. By the time you hear the click, you are no more.
Every country has its way, but the Jews had the most torturous. Death is not
a torture; death may be a relief from a torturous life, but on the Jewish cross
you will be praying, “Kill me, God, kill me; I cannot wait anymore”—
because you are hungry and thirsty, and as the blood goes out of your body,
you feel more thirsty, more thirsty, because you are losing liquid. You are
still alive, and the pain is tremendous. Such a slow death. It is not just
death. Death can be very simple: you cut the head off the person; it’s not
much of a problem. It does not need forty-eight hours, forty-eight hours of
dying.

He started asking for water. Now, this is the man who used to walk on
water. This is the man who used to turn water into wine. This is the man
who raised the dead from their grave. But he cannot stop his blood flowing
out of his body. He cannot make his blood flow backwards into the body.
He cannot even manage a glass of water—and he was able to change stones
into bread!
Why can’t he change the air into water? Why can’t he arrange a cloud to
shower just on him so he can have a good shower and drink the water? He
proved absolutely impotent on the cross.
But the Christians go on, all over the world, saving people. They don’t even
understand what it means to save.
In the East, no religion has ever proclaimed that anybody can save you
except yourself; and the East knows far more deeply about man’s life and
its transforming forces. It has been working on the human psyche for
thousands of years. Still much has to be discovered—perhaps that is not the
right word: rediscovered will be the right word—by the West, which the
East has already discovered long before.
For example, when Sigmund Freud, Jung and Adler and other great
psychologists of the beginning of this century started talking of the
unconscious mind, the subconscious mind, the conscious mind, it was
Freud’s rediscovery. But he never came to know that it was a rediscovery ,
that in India for thousands of years we have known all these divisions are
there.
But the West was shocked, could not believe there was an unconscious. “If
there is an unconscious then why is it not mentioned in the Bible?—because
anything which is not mentioned in the Bible certainly does not exist. God
has given the whole message entirely about everything: the unconscious
mind is not mentioned.”
Jung went a little deeper and found the collective unconscious mind. But
you will be surprised that Buddha talks about not only these minds but a
few more minds, because this is only one way… For example, Freud goes
downwards: the conscious mind is of course acceptable to everybody

because that’s where we are, but Freud goes downwards and finds the
subconscious mind. That’s when you dream. A boundary line between the
unconscious and the conscious, it is just the middle part that joins the
unconscious with the conscious.
Jung goes a little deeper and finds that if you go deeper into the
unconscious, you suddenly find a depth which is not individual, which is
collective. It is as if on the surface you see many icebergs, but as you go
deeper you find only a big iceberg with many peaks above the surface of the
water—but underneath it is only one big iceberg.
Buddha goes upwards too. He goes downwards—and farther than Jung.
After the collective unconscious mind he says there is a cosmic unconscious
mind, because the collective unconscious mind means the unconscious
mind of the whole humanity—but what about the animals and the trees and
the mountains and the rivers and the stars? Go a little deeper and you will
find a cosmic unconscious mind.
And Buddha goes upwards too. So going downwards, the conscious mind is
just in the middle, where we are. Below it are the subconscious mind,
unconscious mind, collective unconscious mind and cosmic unconscious
mind. He also moved upwards, which in the future psychology has to do.
He says, “Above the conscious mind is again the same ladder that goes
downwards. Just as below there is a subconscious mind; above there is a
superconscious mind.”
If you move upwards then above the superconscious mind you will find, in
Buddha’s language, the super-superconscious mind. Then you will find the
collective conscious mind, and then you will find the cosmic conscious
mind. Then you have traveled the whole journey, downwards and upwards.
Now, before Sigmund Freud, people thought that Buddha was just
imagining. But Freud was not a religious man in any sense. He had a
scientific mind: he proved the subconscious, the unconscious. Jung was not
a religious man; he proved the collective unconscious. Now some other
scientist is needed to prove the cosmic unconscious.

And he will be coming soon, because if it is a fact—and it must be, because
if this man Buddha goes about finding the fourth absolutely correctly, there
is no reason to doubt that he is correct about the fifth. And if he is correct
about the downward ladders, then why should he not be correct about the
upward ladders?
But to move upward you will need the religious mind. The scientific mind
will not be enough.
The scientific mind can go more towards things. And this is how you are
going to move towards things: from the conscious mind you have to come
to the cosmic unconscious mind. Perhaps things have a cosmic unconscious
mind, absolutely dormant, but it must be there. Otherwise how is it possible
that you eat food, which is dead, which is a “thing,” but it feeds your brain,
your mind, and keeps them functioning. Somewhere, some part of the
things you eat is releasing some consciousness, some mind quality to you.
Otherwise from where do you get your mind?
They say if you don’t breathe for six minutes, and oxygen does not reach
the brain, the brain starts deteriorating. Its cells are so delicate that at the
most they can survive without oxygen only six minutes.
It happened in the Second World War that a few people had heart attacks,
just a psychological heart attack: a bomb fell just in front of them, exploded
and killed many people. When you see so many people dying—suddenly an
explosion and so many people dying—it is possible to have a psychological
heart attack. You may fall dead. You are not dead, but amongst so many
dead how can you stand alive? You can’t be an exception. You are not the
only begotten son of God; you are just an ordinary human being, and when
everybody is dying what are you doing here? Just the shock may stop your
breathing.
They revived many people like this in Russia in the Second World War. If
the person was revived after six minutes had passed, he became alive but he
never became conscious. He remained in a coma because already the brain
had broken, but the rest of the body came back; everything else started
functioning.

I have seen one woman who had been for nine months in a coma, with
everything functioning. She was breathing, her pulse was normal,
everything was good, just somehow her brain had gone into nonfunctioning.
The doctors said she could live years. If you went on supporting, helping,
feeding her, she could live for years, but there was no hope that her brain
could be restored. And we don’t yet have banks for brains, to put somebody
else’s brain in your skull.
But somebody else’s brain will bring somebody else’s personality, not your
personality. That is a difficult problem. Even if one day we can manage to
have banks of brains for transplant, those brains will be carrying memories
of somebody else, his education… Perhaps he was a mathematician, a poet,
a painter; perhaps he was a beggar or a very rich man: he will have different
kinds of memories.
His brain could be fixed into your skull, but it will not be you who comes
back to consciousness, he will come back: he will use your body. He will
speak his language: if he was French, he will speak French, if he was
Russian, he will speak Russian. He will not take any notice of who you are,
whether you have been somebody who had not even heard a single word of
Russian.
That’s a problem. First, to have transplant banks is a problem because the
brain cells die so quickly. But perhaps we can find some way that when a
person is dying, before he dies the brain is taken out and put into a tank
where enough oxygen is available, so the brain can go on functioning. He
will be dreaming there in the tank—making love to a woman, or if he is a
pervert then doing something else. Still, certainly he will be dreaming and
doing his thing—what he was doing inside his original body.
Now he will be doing it in the tank—perhaps far better because more
oxygen and more pure oxygen will be available. And he will not be able to
know that he has been taken out, because one strange thing about your skull
is that inside the skull there is no sensitivity.
So if you take the brain out, the brain will not feel as if it has been taken
out, removed from its original place, placed into something else. It could

simply live on its own. It could function on its own. And whenever it is put
back again into a body, the body will start following the orders of this brain.
Buddha goes upwards too. He says this brain… And there are certain facts
about the mind and the brain to be known, which scientists have discovered
that half of the brain is non-functioning. Only fifty percent of your brain is
functioning, and the other fifty percent of the brain, towards the back, is
almost completely non-functioning.
Now, nature never creates anything for nonfunctioning. It only creates
things to function, and such a valuable thing as the brain… If half the brain
is non-functioning it simply means that we don’t know its uses yet. We have
not discovered for what it is meant to be used.
That gives me a clue. The half of the brain that is functioning is being
discovered by our psychologists, and the half of the brain that is not
functioning starts functioning with meditation. And slowly, slowly you start
becoming aware of something higher than you, beyond you, and beyond,
and beyond. The cosmic conscious mind is your ultimate truth.
Unless you know it you are not saved, because then you will be moving in
the labyrinth of the unconscious, the collective unconscious, the cosmic
unconscious; you will be moving in this labyrinth of darkness which creates
all your misery.
Now, what does Jesus know about it? Just by his telling people, “Believe in
me,” I don’t think that the other half of their brain will start functioning.
These Bible-packing people—do you think that their other half is
functioning? Most probably their whole mind has stopped functioning; they
are in a coma.
Faith is a kind of coma. You stop reasoning, you stop doubting. You stop
questioning. Naturally, because these are the functions of your mind, and
when those functions disappear, by and by your mind stops. If it is not used
it gathers junk; it becomes more and more dull, because doubt is not
allowed. Strange things are expected from you…

Just the other day, my secretary brought me the latest message to humanity
from the pope, a message of one hundred and thirty-nine pages. Naturally it
has to be one hundred and thirty-nine pages because he has not left a single
stupid thing unsaid. You will be surprised that he has found some new sins
which are not mentioned in the Bible. Only a Polack can do that; otherwise
what were all those Old Testament prophets, and then Jesus doing?
The pope has found new sins, but those sins are worth consideration. One of
the sins that he speaks of is the idea of class struggle: to believe in the idea
of class struggle is a sin, a major sin. Now whether you believe in the class
struggle or not, the class struggle is there. There is a struggle between the
rich and the poor. It is not a question of your belief.
In India there is a struggle between castes, a double struggle: class struggle
and caste struggle. Hindus have divided their society into four major varnas
. The word varna is significant; it means color. Perhaps in the beginning the
division was done by color. The whitest were the Aryans, whom Adolf
Hitler claimed to be the Germans, the Nordic Germans, the purest Aryans.
He used the word aryans for Germans, and he used the Aryan symbol of the
swastika for his flag. That is a Hindu symbol, an ancient Aryan symbol.
They were the highest, and as your color became darker, you became lower
and lower and lower.
South India is almost black. If you cut Africa and India from a map and put
them side by side, you will be surprised—they fit absolutely. It is a very
recent finding that once South Africa and India were connected, then slowly
they drifted away. So South India is really of Negro blood. And it is strange
in many ways that the color of the South Indians is black and their
languages are the only languages in India which are not Sanskrit-oriented,
while all the European languages are Sanskrit-oriented. For example, thirty
percent in English, forty percent in German, thirty-five percent in Russian,
seventy percent in Lithuanian, forty percent in Italian…
So in Europe the roots have come from Sanskrit, but the South Indian
languages—Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, Malayalam… Not a single percent of
their language has been borrowed from Sanskrit. This is a very strange
thing. It indicates something: these people are not Aryans. Germans and

Russians and Swiss and French and English are offshoots of the Aryans, but
the South Indians are not Aryans.
So perhaps in the beginning just on the basis of color… That’s why they
call them the four varnas ; but later on, slowly the color got mixed. When
you live with people… Even in America, you will find a person who is half
Negro and half Caucasian, half Negro, half Italian, half Negro, half English.
When people live together they go on mixing. It is very difficult to keep
blood separate. So slowly the varnas got mixed, the colors got mixed, but
the castes remained.
There is a certain struggle between the brahmin and the sudra. The brahmin
is the highest caste, and the sudra is the lowest caste. There is a struggle, a
five-thousand-year-old struggle. Thousands of sudras have been killed,
murdered, butchered, burned alive; even today that continues for small
excuses.
For example, in a small Indian village you will find two wells. One well is
for the higher castes, the three higher castes: the brahmins, the priest class;
the kshatriyas, the warrior class; and the vanikas, the business class. And
the sudras, the untouchables, have a second well. Untouchables are not
allowed to take water from the same well as the three higher classes.
And sometimes it happens that those poor people cannot manage to have a
deep enough well—and they are the poorest of the poor. In summer their
wells dry up, so they have to go miles to a river or to a lake to bring water,
but they cannot go to the well in the city. If they are found… Sometimes it
happens in the night, when somebody is thirsty. The river is so far away,
everybody is asleep, and nobody will come to know… He goes silently and
tries to take a bucket of water—and he is caught. That is enough. That well
has become impure, and that will create a riot.
These poor untouchables, the sudras, live outside the town. They don’t live
inside the town, hence their other name is antyaja . Antyaja means “those
who live outside the town.” And they have the poorest huts made of grass
and bamboo. You can go with just one burning torch in your hand and set
fire to the whole of their village. Just a single man within five minutes can
set the whole untouchables’ village on fire.

Their children will be burned, their animals will be burned, their old men
who cannot escape in time will be burned. And if a whole village is trying
to burn the sudras, then with torches, burning torches, they will not allow
anybody to escape; they will force them back into their burning huts. This
happens even today on any small excuse.
A rumor that a high-caste girl is being seduced by an untouchable young
man—just a rumor is enough! It may not be true; most probably it is not
true, because in an Indian village it is very difficult to have any love affair,
it is such a close-knit society.
And the women are not free to move outside the house. They don’t go to
school, they don’t go to college, they don’t go to the university; there is
almost nowhere they can go. The only places they go are the water well…
the second place they go is the temple. In both places, the sudra is not
allowed. So where will a high-caste girl meet an untouchable? To fall in
love you have at least to be introduced.
And the sudras are so impure, so dirty in the minds of the higher classes
that even their shadow is dirty. Great imagination! Now, a shadow has no
existence. A shadow is simply there because you are standing in the way of
the sun rays so the sun rays cannot pass you; hence you create a shadow.
There is nothing like a shadow. You cannot catch hold of it, you cannot put
it in a bag and take it home; you cannot escape from it, it will follow you. It
does not exist; it is just an absence of rays because you are blocking them.
But Hindus have condemned those poor people so much that even if their
shadow passes over you—you are sitting and a sudra passes by, not
touching you but his shadow touches you—it is enough to create a riot! A
few people may be murdered, because: “Why was he so arrogant? He
should be more careful.”
In the old days, and in very remote corners even today, the sudra first has to
declare, “I am a sudra and I am coming; so please, if anybody is on the
road, move away.” In the past a sudra used to have to do two things…
There were streets which were not open for him, he could not go on them.
But for certain purposes it was impossible not to, so at certain hours he was
allowed.

For example, he was to clean the latrines of the higher classes, so at certain
hours, early in the morning before anybody gets up, he would come and
quickly clean the latrines. But even then—perhaps somebody may have
gone for a morning walk—he had to go on doing two things. He had to
shout, “I am coming—I am a sudra. Please move away if you are
somewhere on the way.”
And the second thing—you will be surprised—he had to keep something
like a brush made of a certain kind of grass that is used in India for cleaning
the floors. That brush, that grass brush, used to hang behind him just like a
tail; he had to keep it tied to his waist. That was to clean the path behind
him. As he was moving, automatically the brush was cleaning the path after
him, his shadow, any dirt that he is leaving behind—so nobody becomes
impure. This is a caste struggle.
Now, no sudra was allowed to study or be educated. If he was found
studying, perhaps secretly, then it was enough of a crime for him to be
killed; that was the only punishment.
And this pope, the Polack, says, “The idea of class struggle, the very idea is
a sin.” This is a great discovery! And why does he say it? The fear of
communism—he is not courageous enough to say that to believe in
communism is a sin because the whole philosophy of communism is based
on the idea of class struggle. Cunning. Why not be clear that to be a
communist is a sin? He must be afraid that when he goes back to Poland,
then those communists there will kill him. And what will happen to
communists in Poland? They will all become sinners.
You see the trickiness of these priests? So he calls it class struggle: the idea
of class struggle, to spread the idea of class struggle, is a great sin.
And another thing, even more marvelous: he says that nobody can have a
direct contact with God; that is a sin. You have to go via the Catholic priest;
you cannot confess directly, that is not possible. God is not going to hear
you. Your confession is useless.
Can you see the strategy? The strategy is very complicated, but simple to
understand. The Catholic priest lives on your confessions. The whole

function of the priest disappears if you can have a direct contact with God;
then what is the need of the priesthood?
The pope is not interested in saving you, he is interested in saving the
priesthood. He is the head of the priesthood class, and he is worried about
the thousands of Catholic priests if people start a direct communication with
God. You have to go to the Catholic priest to confess; only then will you be
forgiven. The priest will persuade God to forgive you. You cannot ask
directly.
The implications are many. The Catholic priest knows about every Catholic:
with whose wife he is flirting, who is a homosexual; he also knows with
whom his wife is flirting. He knows about every Catholic—that is his
power. No Catholic can go against him. He has all the keys in his hands; he
can expose you at any moment.
Confession is a strategy of power politics. Hence the Catholic is the most
imprisoned religious man in the world, because the priest knows every
wrong thing that you have done. The court does not know, the police do not
know, your wife has not any knowledge of it, but the priest knows
everything. That is his power over the flock: he can expose you any
moment in front of the society. The police will be after you, the government
will be after you, your wife will be after you, your father will be after you—
you will be crushed.
He knows all the sins that you have committed; but you have not been
caught, so they are not crimes. And you yourself had gone to confess. In
fact, that is his only joy in life. The Catholic priest, what else has he got?
There is no need for him to go to the movies or to see the television: just
sitting in his confession box and listening to all the groovy things is such a
joy. And he goes on giving the punishment also. He says, “Go out in the
church and do this prayer ten times.”
One day it happened: a rabbi who was a friend of a Catholic priest was
visiting the priest; it was a confession day. Suddenly a man came running.
The Catholic priest had just finished one confession and given the man a
punishment of ten prayers because he had raped a woman. The rabbi was

also sitting in the confessional box. They were friends so he was just
listening to what was going on.
The man came running and said, “Somebody is very sick, almost dying and
you are needed to bless him for the journey.”
So the priest said to the rabbi, “I will have to go. I will come back as
quickly as possible. But meanwhile somebody may come to confess, so you
just sit here.”
The rabbi said, “But what am I to do?”
The priest said, “You just have to listen to so many confessions; just give
them some punishment. And you can’t see them face to face—there is a
curtain—so nobody feels awkward.” Otherwise confessing one’s sins feels
awkward. And the priest, inquiring more about it and going more and more
into your sin—how you committed the rape, and what happened; what you
did and what she did—would feel awkward asking these things… “So the
curtain is there so nobody will know who is inside—a rabbi or a Catholic
priest.”
So the rabbi said, “Okay, go, but come back quickly because I am not
accustomed to this business—we do things differently.”
A man came, and by chance he had also committed a rape. The rabbi felt at
ease, he said, “Don’t be worried, son.” Exactly in the tone of the minister:
“Don’t be worried, son. You just go and do ten prayers.
But the man said, “The last time I committed a rape you asked only for five
prayers.”
The rabbi said to himself, “This is a difficult problem.” So he said, “Don’t
be worried; you can commit one more, but do ten prayers.” What else to
do? “For the future, you have five in advance.”
Now these people are gathering details of your underground life, which is
very dangerous because that man now has every power over you.
Whatsoever he says, you have to do it. Now, the pope is trying to save the

priesthood and its power, and its hold over you. It has nothing to do with
saving you, because what is the problem in confessing directly to God?
What can this priest do? But no, you have to go via the right channel, the
proper bureaucracy. Even with God there is a bureaucracy: you have to go
through the priest. You cannot contact God directly.
This is his great message to humanity: disconnecting you from God
completely; your only approach is the priest. It is none of your affair to
think of having any direct contact with God. Now is this a religion?
True religion teaches you that you are part of this existence, already
connected with it, already one with The pope is teaching that you are not
connected, that you are a lost soul; only through the priest can you be
saved.
So when these Bible-packing Christians come to you, tell them, “In the first
place we are not lost, so don’t waste your time. In this place nobody is lost,
we have never been lost, so the question of saving does not arise. And for
your sake, we advise you, don’t come near here because our whole effort is
to unsave people who believe that they are saved. If you go on coming here,
we will unsave you again.”
Okay, you can ask one more question. My hands are not tired yet.
Were you not punished for your mischievous acts in childhood?
I have been punished, but I have never taken any punishment as
punishment. From my very childhood that has been my attitude: that how
you take a thing makes all the difference. Nobody can punish me if I don’t
take it as a punishment.
One of my teachers in the primary school when I was in the fourth grade…
It was my first day in his class, and I had not done anything very wrong, I
was just doing what you do in meditation: “ Aum , aum …” but inside, with
closed mouth. I had a few of my friends, and I told them to sit in different
places so he could not figure out from where the sound was coming. One
time it was coming from here, another time it was coming from there,
another time it was coming from here; he went on looking from where the

sound was coming. So I told them, “Keep your mouths shut, and do the aum
inside.”
For a moment he could not figure it out. I was sitting at the very back. All
teachers wanted me to sit in the front so they could keep an eye on me, and
I always wanted to sit at the back from where you can do many more
things; it is more feasible. He came directly to me. He must have heard
from the third grade teacher, “You keep an eye on this boy!” So he said,
“Although I cannot figure out who the people are who are doing it, you
must be doing it.”
I said, “What? What am I doing? You have to tell me. Just saying, ‘You
must be doing it’ does not make sense. What…?”
Now it was difficult for him to do what I was doing, because that would
have looked foolish, and everybody would have started laughing. He said,
“Whatsoever it is, hold both your ears in your hands and sit down, stand up,
sit down, stand up—five times.”
I said, “Perfectly okay.” I asked him, “Can I do it fifty times?”
He said, “This is not a reward, this is a punishment.”
I said, ‘This morning I have not done any exercise so I thought that this was
a good chance, and you would be very happy. Instead of five I will do fifty.
And always remember, whenever you give me any kind of reward”—that’s
exactly the word I told him—“whenever you give me any kind of reward,
be generous.” And I started doing fifty.
He went on, “Stop! It is enough. I have never seen such a boy. You should
be ashamed that you have been punished.”
I said, “No, I am doing my morning exercise. You helped me, you have
rewarded me; this is a good exercise. In fact, you should do it too.”
I never took any punishment as punishment. How can you punish a man
who is ready to accept it as a reward?

In my high school it was an everyday affair that I was standing outside the
classroom, because the moment the teacher would see me, he would say,
“You better go out before you do something. I will have to send you out in
any case. Please go out and leave us alone.”
And I would say, “Thank you sir, because outside I enjoy it so much; it is so
beautiful.” And we had beautiful trees and birds and vast greenery for miles
behind the school. “Standing on the verandah is such a joy and the air is so
pure that I feel sorry for you all sitting in this dirty room.” And I really
enjoyed it outside.
They figured out that this was not a punishment, they were really providing
a good opportunity and a chance for me to enjoy myself in complete
freedom—because outside I was free to move anywhere or to just go into
the thick forest that was behind. They figured out that this was not a
punishment, this was a reward. They started stopping it.
I would ask them, “What happened, has the policy changed? I am no longer
sent outside. Have I to do something before you send me? It saves me from
the torture of you and your history. I am not interested in Alexander the
Great, I am not interested in Emperor Akbar. What have I to do with these
people? I am not interested in history at all. If I am interested then the only
interest can be to make history. Only fools who cannot make history read
history. Read, and teach all these fools that are here, but throw me out.
The teacher of history took me to the principal. He said, “What am I
supposed to do? You cannot give him any corporal punishment—he
immediately threatens to go to the police station, and unfortunately the
police station is just nearby, in front of the school, and he will create
trouble. And he is so strange that he has found a legal expert to support
him.”
One of my friends’ fathers was the best advocate in the city. Everybody
called him Bachchubhaiya, I don’t know what his full name was. Bachchu
is just a nickname for small children. It means just a child; the literal
meaning is “a child.” He must have been loved by people; he was a very
lovable person. He used to be called Bachchubhaiya. Bachchubhaiya means

brother. He was almost sixty, still everybody called him Bachchubhaiya,
and he was very friendly with everybody.
So I went to him and asked him, “They threaten me with corporal
punishment. You have to support me, because I will report it to the police
but the police may listen to me, may not listen to me. It is better I go with a
legal expert.”
He said, “Don’t be worried. I will keep your case prepared. Whenever you
want I will come along with you and I will see that what you want has to be
done.”
So this teacher of history told the principal, “Bachchubhaiya has promised
him that he will go with him. That will create immediate trouble because
the police inspector, the police commissioner, nobody can deny
Bachchubhaiya: he is the most powerful advocate, and he has power over
all police authorities, civil authorities, criminal authorities. And
Bachchubhaiya has told him that if the police inspector does not listen he
will go directly to the collector. So we cannot punish him.
“I asked him to sit down and stand up. He thinks this is exercise. And one
day it became such a scene that he told all the students ‘Why are you
sitting? You also do it. Exercise is exercise, it is good for the body.’ And all
those students—they listen to him more than to me—they all started doing
the exercise. I looked like a fool standing there, and I started thinking why I
punished him. And he won’t stop. Then I started throwing him out of the
class, but he enjoyed it so much that it is not a punishment any more.”
The principal sent me back. He wanted to talk with the teacher in private.
He suggested, “Give him a punishment such that his family comes to
know.”
There used to be a register in the principal’s office—whenever somebody
was doing real mischief, the teacher would go and write in it his name and
the fine of ten rupees. Then I would have to collect the ten rupees from my
family, from my father; I would have to ask them.

So he did that. He put a ten-rupee fine on me and came back and told me,
“We have found the way: I have put a ten-rupee fine against your name.”
I said, “Okay. Now I am going to fine you.”
He said, “You are going to fine me?”
I said, “Of course, because in the register it is not mentioned anywhere that
only teachers can fine the students. There is no condition like that.” And I
went and I put twenty rupees against his name.
The principal said, “Are you mad or what? You are a student!”
I said, “I know I am a student, but is there any prohibition that says I cannot
fine a teacher if he is doing mischief?—and this is mischief. If I am doing
anything wrong then I should be punished; this fine is punishing my father.
Can you justify it? Why should my father be punished? He is not involved
in it at all.”
I wrote my teacher’s name and the twenty-rupee fine and I said, “Unless he
pays, I am not going to pay.”
Still in that register those two punishments remain unpaid because he would
not pay me what the principal asked: “You pay the twenty rupees.”
And I told the principal, “Don’t cross this out, otherwise I will fine you.
And even crossing it out won’t make any difference because when the
inspector of the school comes I am going to report this, and I am going to
show him what has been crossed out, and you will have to answer for it.”
So he never asked for the ten rupees from me because my condition was:
“First you get twenty rupees from that man, then I will consider it.”
Punishments have been given but I enjoyed the whole thing. It was sheer
joy. It is a question of attitude—how you take it—and that is something to
be learned about your whole life.
I am reminded…

There was a world conference of psychologists, psychiatrists, therapists—
people who are involved in the mind games. They are still games, they have
not yet got to the point where you can call them a science. Although they
are arriving slowly, and are on the right track, still they are playing games.
It was a world conference of all the famous psychiatrists, psychologists,
therapists.
While the president was inaugurating the conference, he was feeling very
uneasy, very disturbed by something just in the front row. There was a
beautiful woman, a famous psychiatrist, and an old psychologist, also very
famous in his own way—the only surviving colleague of Sigmund Freud.
He was playing with the tits of the woman; and just in the front row! Now,
how could the president go on speaking?
He tried looking this way, looking that way, but you can’t address a
conference just looking this way or that way; you have to look in front too,
at least once in a while. And it was too much. The old man was really
something; he was not worried that the whole conference, everybody in the
hall, could see what was happening. And the woman was even greater; she
was sitting and listening to the lecture.
Finally it was too much, and the president said, “Please forgive me, but,
lady, can I ask you a question?”
She said, “Of course.”
He said, “Why don’t you complain against this dirty old man?”
She said, “It is his problem, it is not my problem. His dirtiness or whatever
he is doing, that is his problem. How am I concerned in it?—he is doing no
harm to me. And if it gives him some consolation, some satisfaction, so far
so good. He is a patient, that much I can say; he is not a therapist, he is a
patient. But you don’t complain against a patient—I feel sorry for him. Buy
why are you disturbed? Continue. If I am not disturbed then why are you
disturbed and why is everybody else disturbed?”
It is not a joke. The woman is saying something immensely meaningful: she
is saying, “It is his problem, and he is suffering from a problem. He needs

sympathy not complaint.” But this woman must have been of immense
understanding, really a therapist, not only playing games but moving to the
very roots of man’s psychic troubles.
The woman simply said that he is behaving like a child, and treating her
like his mother, so what is wrong with it? He has not grown up, he is
retarded. Now, to make a fuss about it, to disturb the whole conference
about it, is meaningless. Let him. She told the old man, “Continue,” and she
told the president, “You also continue. I am undisturbed because it does not
concern me at all. Just touching my skin, what does it matter?”
This woman can become awakened because she is behaving like a watcher,
even about her own body. She is not identified with the body, she is far
above, looking at the retarded old man but not feeling offended—because “I
am not the body.”
I have been caned, not by my teachers, because they were afraid I would go
to the police station, but by my uncles. My grandfather was always
favorable to me about anything. He was ready to participate if he could; of
course he never punished me, he always rewarded me.
I used to come home every night and the first thing my grandfather would
ask was, “What did you do today? How did things go? Was there any
trouble?” We always used to have a good meeting in the night in his bed,
sitting together, and he enjoyed everything. I used to tell everything that had
happened in the day, and he would say, “It was really a good day!”
My father only punished me once because I had gone to a fair which used to
happen a few miles away from the city every year. There flows one of the
holy rivers of the Hindus, the Narmada, and on the bank of the Narmada
there used to be a big fair for one month. So I simply went there without
asking him.
There was so much going on in the fair… I had gone only for one day and I
was thinking I would be back by the night, but there were so many things:
magicians, a circus, drama. It was not possible to come back in one day, so
three days… The whole family was in a panic: where had I gone?

It had never happened before. At the most I had come back late in the night
but I had never been away for three days continuously, and with no
message. They inquired at every friend’s house. Nobody knew about me
and the fourth day when I came home my father was really angry. Before
asking me anything, he slapped me. I didn’t say anything.
I said, “Do you want to slap me more? You can, because I have enjoyed
enough in three days. You cannot slap me more than I have enjoyed, so you
can do a few more slaps. It will cool you down, and to me it is just
balancing. I have enjoyed myself.”
He said, “You are really impossible. Slapping you is meaningless. You are
not hurt by it; you are asking for more. Can’t you make a distinction
between punishment and reward?”
I said, “No, to me everything is a reward of some kind. There are different
kinds of reward, but everything is a reward of some kind.”
He asked me, “Where have you been for these three days?”
I said, “This you should have asked before you slapped me. Now you have
lost the right to ask me. I have been slapped without even being asked. It is
a full stop—close the chapter. If you wanted to know, you should have
asked before, but you don’t have any patience. Just a minute would have
been enough. But I will not keep you continually worrying where I have
been, so I will tell you that I went to the fair.”
He asked, “Why didn’t you ask me?”
I said, “Because I wanted to go. Be truthful: if I had asked, would you have
allowed me? Be truthful.”
He said, “No.”
I said, “That explains everything, why I did not ask you—because I wanted
to go, and then it would have been more difficult for you. If I had asked you
and you had said no, I still would have gone, and that would have been
more difficult for you. Just to make it easier for you, I didn’t ask, and I am

rewarded for it. And I am ready to take any more reward you want to give
me. But I have enjoyed the fair so much that I am going there every year.
So you can…whenever! …Disappear, you know where I am. Don’t be
worried.”
He said, “This is the last time that I punish you; the first and last time.
Perhaps you are right: if you really wanted to go then this was the only way,
because I was not going to allow you. In that fair every kind of thing
happens: prostitutes are there, intoxicants are available, drugs are sold
there”—and at that time in India there was no illegality about drugs, every
drug was freely available. And in a fair all kinds of monks gather, and
Hindu monks all use drugs—“so I would not have allowed you to go. And
if you really wanted to go then perhaps you were right not to ask.”
I told him, “But I did not bother about the prostitutes or the monks or the
drugs. You know me: if I am interested in drugs, then in this very city…”
Just by the side of my house there was a shop where all drugs were
available: “and the man is so friendly to me that he will not take any money
if I want any drug. So there is no problem. Prostitutes are available in the
town; if I am interested in seeing their dances I can go there. Who can
prevent me? Monks come continually in the city. But I was interested in the
magicians.”
And my interest in magic is related to my interest in miracles. In India,
before the partition, I have seen every kind of miracle being done on the
streets by magicians, poor magicians. Perhaps after the whole show they
may get a one-rupee collection. How can I believe that these people are
messiahs? For one rupee, for three hours they are doing almost impossible
things. Of course everything has a trick to it but if you don’t know the trick
then it is a miracle.
You have simply heard—I have seen them throwing a rope up, and the rope
stands by itself. They have a boy with them they call “Jamura”; every
magician has a jamura . I don’t know how to translate it…just “my boy.”
And he goes on talking with the jamura , “Jamura, will you go up the
rope?”

And he will say, “Yes, I will go.” And this continual conversation has
something to do with the trick; it keeps people’s mind on the conversation,
and the conversation is funny in many ways. I have seen that boy climbing
up the rope and disappearing!
And the man calls from down below, “Jamura?”
And from far above comes the voice, “Yes, master.”
And he says, “Now I will bring you down part by part.” Then he throws a
knife up, and the head of the boy comes down! He throws the knife up, and
a leg comes down! Part by part the boy comes down, and the magician goes
on putting the parts together, covers them with a bed sheet and says,
“Jamura, now be together.”
And the jamura says, “Yes, master.” The magician removes the bed sheet
and the boy stands up! He pulls down the rope, winds it up, puts it in the
bag and starts asking for money. At the most he would get one rupee—
because in those days sixty paise was equivalent to one rupee and nobody
was going to give him more than one paise, two paise at the most; a very
rich person would give him four paise. If he can gather one rupee for his
miracle he is fortunate. I have seen all kinds of things, and the people who
are doing them are just beggars.
So when I hear that your faith in Jesus will disappear if you know that he
never walked on water, that he never turned water into wine, I cannot
conceive of it, because in the twentieth century, the secrets of how to do all
these magic tricks are available, even in books. And you can do them, you
just have to learn a little strategy.
So I told my father, “I was interested only in the magic, because in the fair
all kinds of magicians gather together, and I have seen some really great
things. My interest is that I want to reduce miracles into magic. Magic is
only about tricks—there is nothing spiritual in it—but if you don’t know the
trick, then certainly it appears to be a miracle.”
I have been punished, but I have enjoyed every mischief so much that I
don’t count those punishments at all. They are nothing.

I have a certain rapport with women, perhaps that’s why mischief—if it was
Mister Chief or Master Chief, perhaps I would have avoided it, but Miss
Chief!—the temptation was so much that I could not avoid it. In spite of all
the punishment I continued it. And I still continue it!
Chapter 11
Watchfulness, Awareness, Alertness—the Real Trinity
How does one explore the higher states of consciousness?
There are not many ways, there is but one: the way of awareness.
Man is almost unconscious. I say “almost”—there are moments, situations
where he becomes conscious, but they are momentary.
For example, suddenly your house is on fire. You will feel a flare-up within
you, a sense of alertness that was not there before. You may have been tired,
you may not have slept for a few days, you may have been traveling and
you were hoping that as you reached your house, the first thing you were
going to do was to fall asleep—but the house is on fire!
All tiredness disappears. You forget the whole nightmare of the journey, and
inside you find something new which perhaps you will miss because the
house is on fire; so you will become not alert of your alertness, but alert of
the fire that is burning your house.
In ordinary life also, there are moments when people touch a higher state of
consciousness, but miss because that higher state comes as an emergency,
and they have to first tackle the emergency that is facing them. And that
cannot be the circumstance where they can start exploring what is
happening inside them.
But if you can remember—even as a memory—some moments in your life
when suddenly you were more aware than you usually are, it will be a great
help to understand what I am going to say to you.

I have told you that modern psychology has moved below the so-called
human consciousness. And when people like Sigmund Freud found that just
underneath your thin layer of consciousness there is another layer, it was a
great discovery for him, and for the West. And his whole life he devoted to
exploring the underground, the basement of your consciousness.
That’s why he became interested in the analysis of dreams, because when
you are conscious you can pretend, you can be a hypocrite. You can say
something that you don’t mean, you can do something that you never
wanted to do. You can smile, and inside you want to cry, weep. You can cry
and weep, and inside you are enjoying, you are rejoicing.
So your consciousness has been so polluted by the society, it is not reliable.
This was one of the most significant contributions of Sigmund Freud: that
your consciousness is not reliable. Strange, that he feels your
unconsciousness is more reliable than your consciousness.
Nothing can be a greater condemnation of the whole human civilization, the
whole human history of all the religions. What else can be a greater
condemnation than this: that your consciousness is not reliable; that your
society, your tradition, your religion, your convention, have made it
unreliable.
In one of Kahlil Gibran’s stories, the mother and her daughter are both
sleepwalkers. The daughter one night walks in her sleep, goes into the
garden and starts saying nasty things about her mother. And just by accident
her mother also sleepwalks behind her and starts saying ugly things about
her. But the cold wind outside suddenly wakes them both.
And the daughter says, “Mom, you don’t have anything warm around you,
you should not come out at your age. You make me so worried.”
And the mother says, “My beloved daughter, in this whole world there is
nobody except you whom I can call mine.”
This much is the story, but it contains the whole discovery of Sigmund
Freud: while they were asleep they were saying really what they feel about

each other. When they wake up they are saying what they are supposed to
say to each other. And they will not become aware of their two sides.
And if there were only two sides, things would have been far easier, but
there are many more sides. I have told you—it will be good to be reminded
—consciousness is a very thin layer where we are existing. Below it is the
subconscious mind; that is half-conscious, half-unconscious. That’s why
you remember dreams only of the later part of the night. You don’t
remember all your dreams from the whole night because in eight hours of
sleep, for six hours you are dreaming.
Now this is a scientifically proved fact. Only here and there for a few
minutes you fall into deeper sleep where there are no longer dreams; the
total is two hours. But the dream total is six hours. You don’t remember in
the morning six hours’ dreams—almost the length of three movies. At the
most you remember some fragment, or sometimes a whole dream, but that
dream was the last dream when you were waking up.
The subconscious mind has two sides. One is connected with the
unconscious, the bottom part. When you are deeply asleep, dreams are
moving at the bottom part of the subconscious. The conscious is very far
away. But when you wake up in the morning, you are coming closer to the
conscious mind, then the top layer of the subconscious is dreaming.
That’s why your consciousness can hear little bits and pieces of dreaming,
and in the morning you can remember something. But that is only the tail of
the elephant. The whole elephant has disappeared, you have no notion of it.
And of course the tail makes no sense because the elephant is not there.
Hence the psychoanalyst is needed to find out the elephant: what kind of
elephant it was, whether it was an elephant or a camel or a cow or a horse,
because you have only a tail—perhaps not even the whole tail, a few hairs
of the tail.
The whole function of psychoanalysis is to put those hairs together and to
figure out whose tail this can be; to dig you from this corner and from that
corner, and hit you from this point and that point, so something comes up
which is there, but of which you are not aware. The psychologist makes

almost the whole animal on the basis of a few hairs of the tail. That’s why
there are so many schools of psychoanalysis.
It was bound to be so. Sigmund Freud wanted psychoanalysis to remain one
integrated movement. It was impossible, because the work of the
psychoanalyst is more or less imagination: he has a few things in his hand
but those things can lead to any conclusion.
If you go to Sigmund Freud then those same hairs will prove you are
sexually obsessed: that is his elephant. And once he has found the elephant
you will start seeing according to his vision, and you will find explanations
that perhaps he is right. And perhaps he is right.
If you go to Adler, he has a different kind of imagination: will-to-power.
For Sigmund Freud it is will-to-sex, will-to-reproduction. To Sigmund
Freud it is more of a biological phenomenon than to Adler.
To Adler it is more of a political phenomenon: will-to-power. If you take
the same hairs to Sigmund Freud he will manage to figure out and discover
perversions of sex in you. And I am saying perhaps he is right, and I also
want to say perhaps Adler is also right.
If you go to Jung then he will find through those same hairs some
mythological phenomenon. It will not be biological, it will not be political,
it will be mythological. And I want to say: perhaps he is also right.
All these three continually quarreled, not knowing that man’s mind has
multi-aspects, that it is not exhausted by one explanation, that not only are
there these three, there are more possibilities. Just a few more Freuds, Jungs
and Adlers are needed who have some poetic imagination, and some
scientific way of explanation.
Man’s mind is multidimensional. And every dimension is connected.
For example: sexuality is part of his will-to-power, it is not separate.
Through sex also he is trying to be powerful, to be a creator, to give birth, to
possess a woman or a man. And you can look at any couple: they are
continually in a power conflict—who possesses whom?

The wife is trying in every possible way… And she has some natural
capacity which she uses. If you are not allowing her to be more powerful
than you then she will deprive you of sex, and she knows that you cannot
starve as far as sex is concerned. You are going to beg her, you are going to
persuade her: you are going to bring chocolates and ice cream and beautiful
clothes. She understands that this is all bribery. You also understand it, that
this is trying to make coexistence possible.
But your effort is also continuously to dominate her.
One of my friends was in love with a woman but was not ready to marry
her. Now the woman was troubled; she came to me and she told me, “This
is strange. Now my family is after me saying, ‘If he loves you then he
should marry you, otherwise you are passing the marriageable age.’”
And in India it is then difficult to find a young man of your age available.
They will already be married. Then you will have to be married to
somebody who is far older than you—perhaps once or twice married
before, and whose wives fortunately went on dying and who is still a
bachelor. “So, they are after me: ‘Either he marries you or we choose
somebody else.’”
I said, “Let me ask him what the problem is.”
And he told me, “I cannot hide it from you. I really love her, but when the
question of marriage arises, the trouble is she is taller than me.”
I said, “What kind of trouble is that? I don’t see any trouble in it. If she is
taller, you can stand up on a stool and kiss her—at the most a stool is
needed!”
I showed him a picture—just that day it was in the newspaper and the
newspaper was laying there—of Mountbatten, the last viceroy of India, who
was a very tall man, with the first prime minister of India, Jawaharlal
Nehru, who was only five feet five. So when he gave the oath to Jawaharlal
it would have looked really bad: the prime minister would have looked very
small, the viceroy really tall. He must have been six and a half feet, or even
more, so they arranged it in the picture…

I showed him, “You see the management. Jawaharlal is standing on a step,
the steps that lead to the throne. He is standing on a step, and Mountbatten
is standing on the floor so they seem almost equal in size.” I said, “Can you
see the trick? It is not much of a problem. You can have a folding stool
which you can always have in the back of your car, so wherever you need
you take your stool.”
He said, “You are making a laughingstock of me. I am serious, because
wherever I go, she will be taller and I cannot continually walk with the
stool. And in the marriage ceremony when I am taking the seven rounds
around the sacred fire, she is so tall I will be ahead of her looking almost
like her child. I love her, but I cannot marry her because everybody will
laugh.”
And in the marriage ceremony in India all the relatives and friends from
faraway gather. It is a gathering of thousands of people. And they were rich
people, so everybody would come and everybody would see only one thing:
the tallness of the wife. Love had to fail before the power instinct.
I said, “What does it matter? You can tell them, ‘I am not taller than my
wife.’”
But you can look around the whole world, and you will find the husband
always taller than the wife. How has it been managed? Why has the woman
remained smaller than the man? It is simply a question that for millions of
years that was the choice: the man will always choose a wife smaller than
himself. Slowly, by sheer selection, the taller women went out of existence;
it was difficult for them to find a husband. They became prostitutes, they
became part of the marketplace, available to all. They could not live a
respectable life unless they happened to meet a man taller than them.
But the man was always taller; slowly, slowly, this is how it happened. You
can inquire of those people who crossbreed animals. After generations of
this continual crossbreeding: taller husband-smaller wife, taller husband-
smaller wife…
If the woman is so tall that she cannot find a husband, she becomes a
prostitute, she goes out of the biological market, she is a dropout. She will

not be creating children any longer, because a prostitute cannot afford
children. So her line dies out; that branch grows no further.
It is not natural that women have to be smaller. It is the power instinct, the
will-to-power.
But sexuality and the will-to-power are not two separate things, not as
separate as Adler and Freud think. The people who become very much
power-oriented start losing interest in sex because their whole energy
moves into the will-to-power. The people who are very deeply interested in
exploring their sexuality cannot go into politics; they don’t have any energy
left.
You can see it in actuality in many places. We don’t allow soldiers to have
their wives on the battlefield. The general can, because the general remains
behind; he is not really fighting, he is simply ordering people to fight. And
he is perfectly defended; if there is any danger, he will be the first to get
out. He is far behind the forces. He is allowed to have a wife there because
there is no problem, he is not going to fight. But the soldiers are not allowed
to. Why?—for the simple reason that if their energy goes into sex, they
don’t feel like fighting.
You can observe it in yourself. If you are deeply in love with a woman, you
don’t feel like fighting with anybody. But if you cannot find any outlet for
your sexual energy then you will become a criminal, you may kill
somebody. You may be constantly searching for some excuse to fight.
It is not just a coincidence that all the religions have preached that their
monks remain celibate, because once they are celibate then their whole
energy starts moving towards an imaginary God—then God becomes their
sexual object.
And you can see it in the songs of the devotees. They talk of God almost as
if they are talking of a beloved or of a lover. Meera, one of the most famous
mystics in India, must have been studied by Sigmund Freud. If he did not
study her, he will have to be born again, because those two have to meet
and come to an understanding. Freud never heard about Meera, otherwise

he would have found all the great explanations that he needed and searched
and looked for—and was unable to find.
Meera talks of Krishna almost in sexual terms. She sleeps with the statue of
Krishna. She calls Krishna “my husband.” And the words she uses are
exactly those romantic words which lovers use for each other. The same is
true about the Sufi mystics who think of God as a beloved, a woman. And
you have to see their description of the beauty of God, the youthfulness of
God.
When Fitzgerald, a very talented poet, translated Omar Khayyam, a Sufi
mystic, he did something almost impossible, because Omar Khayyam, in
the original, does not seem to be as impressive as he becomes in the
translation of Fitzgerald. And the reason is, Fitzgerald had no idea that
Omar Khayyam was talking about God, not about a woman.
The Sufis call God, saki . A saki is the woman in the pub who pours wine
for the customers. Particularly in the Arabic and Persian nations, the sakis
are chosen just as in the West you choose Miss World, Miss Universe, Miss
America. The saki is chosen just like that. The most beautiful girl in the city
will become the saki . The most beautiful women move into the profession
of being the saki . And Sufis call God, saki .
Fitzgerald had no idea that saki means, to a Sufi, God. He simply translated
literally that saki is a woman, and when Omar Khayyam says, “Saki, fill my
cup full,” he thinks he is asking a woman to fill his cup full. And when
Omar Khayyam says, “Even the wine is not so sweet as your kiss,” he is
thinking of a woman; hence, his poetry becomes more romantic, more
colorful. One who understands the Sufi terminology will not find much in
Omar Khayyam.
You will be surprised that in Persia, Omar Khayyam is not known as a great
poet. But in the whole world, Omar Khayyam is Persia’s most important
poet, and this miracle has happened because of Fitzgerald. And you would
not have enjoyed Omar Khayyam. He was a mathematician; that was the
first mistake that Fitzgerald made: he did not realize that Omar Khayyam
was a mathematician. Now, a mathematician writing poetry—you
understand, it cannot be juicy. From where can a mathematician get juice?

Then over and above that, he is a Sufi, a seeker of God. There is no place
for any woman in his life; he lived a celibate life.
Fitzgerald never bothered about the man’s life. Before he translated his
poetry he should at least have looked to see whether this man was capable
of writing poetry about women. He was a celibate mathematician! A Sufi.
But Sufis, remaining celibate, think of God as a woman, dream of God as a
woman, the most beautiful woman of course—there can be no comparison
with God. So they pour all their sexuality onto the image of God, the
beloved. He is not a man.
In Omar Khayyam’s book—it is an illustrated book—naturally Fitzgerald
saw the most beautiful pictures of women pouring wine. He thought that
this was really a woman. And he looked at the poetry; it talks about the
woman. Sufis are very angry: Fitzgerald made Omar Khayyam world
famous, while their real poets of Persia are unknown to the world. This man
was not thought to be a poet at all. Once you understand that this woman is
not a real woman but God looked at through the eyes of a celibate Sufi… It
is a hallucination.
Religions understood it: that if you stop sexual energy moving in its natural
way, then the man can manage to see God, to meet Jesus, to talk to Krishna;
anything is possible. The sexual energy is a kind of drug, the most powerful
drug that nature has invented. That’s why, when you fall in love with a
woman, you start seeing in that woman things that nobody sees. It is your
projection, it is your drug, your chemicals, your hormones which are
creating the hallucination around the woman. The woman is just an object,
a screen, on which you are projecting your picture.
And once your sex is satisfied with the woman, you are going to be very
disappointed. You will find that this is not the same woman: you had fallen
in love with somebody else. This is not the woman… But you know that
this is the woman. So there is some deception, this woman deceived you.
You are being deceived by biology, not by this woman.
This woman was also projecting on you. And once the honeymoon is over,
the projection is over. Now she looks at you and finds just an ordinary man,
nothing special about you. Everything was special before: the way you

walked, talked, everything had something unique. Now you are just an
Oregonian, nothing more. There is great frustration on both sides. Now you
are standing face to face, seeing each other without any projection; hence
the continuous fight. It is bound to be so.
In India, where even today ninety percent of marriages, or even more, are
arranged marriages, this kind of frustration never happens. In an arranged
marriage you are not given the chance of hallucinating. From the very
beginning you are just standing on the earth, and there is no romance. You
cannot even see the woman before you get married to her.
The very cultured families now allow the picture of the woman to be seen.
Now a picture of the woman, and with all the photographic tricks—and that
too only if you ask… You are going against the heritage, the culture, you
are not supposed to ask. And particularly the girl cannot even see the
picture of the man she is going to be married to. And even after marriage,
they are not going to see each other in sunlight. They will meet each other
in the darkness of the night. Of course, they remain to each other
mysterious.
The mystery lingers longer in India than anywhere else. In the day they
cannot talk to each other because in India there are joint families. They
cannot talk in front of the children because that is a bad example, they
cannot talk in front of the elders because that is disrespectful. And there are
so many elders in the house, and there are so many dozens of children in the
house, there is no possibility.
You will be surprised that the father of a child cannot take the child in his
hands in front of others: that is disrespectful. I was told by my father, “I
took you in my hands only when you were five years old.” The grandfather
can, that’s why I became friendly with my grandfather. Naturally, he was
acquainted with me, and me with him, from the very beginning. The father
came after five years; he remained a stranger for five years. He never talked
to me for five years.
I have asked my mother. There was no possibility of their talking or
meeting or seeing. They did not see each other for years after their
marriage. Children were born, but they had not seen each other because

they would meet only in the darkness of the night. And in India, in a joint
family, there are sometimes forty people, fifty people in the house. And
those houses are just like Noah’s ark.
For example, my grandfather used to have his horse tied to his cot in the
night too. And I told him “The smell of the horse is so much that even if I
want to meet you, your horse prevents me.” Cows in the house, elders,
children, everybody in the house—how Indians manage to make love is a
mystery.
How they manage to produce dozens of children is simply mystifying. It all
happens in darkness, without whispering a single word. What to say of
loving chitchat and foreplay and afterplay. There is no possibility only the
play is enough! Fore and after does not exist; and the play has to be quick—
so nobody comes to know.
I was staying with my grandfather in the house of one of his friends—and
when a very close guest is there, in India, you don’t allow him to sleep in a
separate room, that is not hospitality. My grandfather and I were sleeping in
the same room where my grandfather’s friend, his son, and his son’s wife
were sleeping. And what I learned… My grandfather was old so once in a
while he would cough; his friend was even older than him, and once in a
while he would cough. And because of their coughing my sleep was
difficult, so once in a while I would wake up. And once in a while I would
see the son of my grandfather’s friend making love to his wife—then I
would cough.
That was enough! That was enough; he would jump into his own bed. And
while I remained there I did not allow him to sleep with his wife. On the
day we were leaving he pulled me aside and said, “You rascal!”
I said, “What? Why are you calling me a rascal?”
He said, “You coughed exactly at the time… Do you sleep or not? Those
two old men, I know they cough—but not exactly at the time. I am so happy
that you are going because for these two months I have not met my wife,
because the moment I started moving towards her bed you would start
coughing.” And coughing is such a thing that when I started then those two

old men would hear it and start; it is infectious. One person starts, then the
other starts feeling a temptation too.
Stop the sexual energy of people, then it will find some other outlet.
Religions learned the trick: stop sexual energy—it moves, and gives the
movement towards God. The military generals found it very soon: stop the
sexual energy and the man is ready to fight, to quarrel; he is just hankering
to fight.
In fact Sigmund Freud’s explanation for all weapons is just sexual. He says
that when you throw a knife into somebody’s body, it is sexual penetration.
A bullet is a sexual penetration from a faraway distance. He is a little bit
obsessed with sex, but there is some truth in it, because sexually fulfilled
people have not discovered weapons. There was no need.
So, all these explanations are about your dreams because your dreams are
truer than your waking life. In waking life you don’t beat your teacher, but
in dreams you can. That’s your real desire. If you were allowed, or if you
were powerful enough you would have done it. But it is not possible, not
practical. In dreams you are free to do it; it is a kind of substitute.
So below the conscious is the subconscious, which is the field of your
dreaming. Below the subconscious is the unconscious, which is the field of
your dreamless sleep, when you are in a kind of coma. You reach the same
state as you were in your mother’s womb; hence the relaxation, hence the
feeling of rejuvenation. After a deep sleep, when you wake up you are
fresh, young, full of energy.
If those two hours have been missed then you may have tossed and turned
and dreamed a thousand and one things, but in the morning you will find
yourself as tired as when you had gone to bed, perhaps more tired. That
coma is needed, because in that coma your mind stops functioning and your
body takes over When you are conscious, it is mind over body; when you
are unconscious, it is body over mind. And the body has a wisdom because
the body is far more ancient. Mind is a very late development, a very new
comer, just amateurish. Hence, anything important, nature has not left to
mind. Everything important has been left to the body, because body will

take care more proficiently, more professionally, more wisely, without any
mistakes, errors.
For example, breathing has not been left to the mind; otherwise sometimes
you may forget, particularly in sleep. What will you do?—when deep sleep
comes breathing will stop. No, breathing is not left to the mind. It is a body
function because it is so essential for your life. And the mind is so
amateurish and so stupid, because it is just trying to wake up, it is still not
awake.
Nature has given every power to the body, all essential powers to the body.
Your mind can be put aside and your body will go on functioning perfectly
well. In fact, mind is always a hindrance in everything. He tries to
overcome body, because mind is a power tripper, he wants to control
everything.
What do these people go on doing in the name of Yoga? They are trying to
control even their pulses, they are trying to control even their heartbeat. For
what?—what do they gain out of it? I have seen people practicing for forty
years how to stop the heartbeat; and certainly if they do that much practice
they can stop the heartbeat for a time.
But what is the gain? You cannot see anything. I have seen these people:
you don’t see any aura, you don’t see any fragrance. You don’t see in their
eyes that there has been any vision of reality. You don’t see in their life any
impact of the higher consciousness.
But they have immense power over the body. I have seen people lying
down and a car passing over their body; they will simply stop their breath
and the car passes over with no harm. I have seen one man stopping the
body of a railway engine just with his hands. And all that he was doing was
stopping his breath. By stopping his breath he was capable of stopping a
railway engine or any car.
It was as if he had become a rock, so heavy that it was impossible for the
car, a four horsepower or six horsepower car, to push the man aside. With
his breathing disappearing, it was as if all his hollowness had disappeared

and he had become a solid rock. The earth and its gravitation is functioning
perhaps ten times more on that person than it functions on you.
It is just like when you are in water: the gravitation functions less on you;
that’s why you can float on water. In water you can take a big rock in your
hands without any trouble. You cannot pick up the same rock outside the
water.
Water cuts somehow the power of gravitation. The water has the quality of
levitation, of taking things up; levitation against gravitation. That’s why you
can take a bigger man’s body in your hands in water, just like a child, as if
he is a child. Outside the water you cannot do the same, he is so heavy.
Perhaps by stopping the breathe—the quality of air must give a great
levitation—the person becomes so heavy, and the power of gravitation is
almost eight times more that he can manage normally. The wheels go on
moving, but the car cannot move a single inch.
But what is the point of it? I have asked these people, “Yes, you have done
a great job, but to me it seems idiotic. What is the point? How have you
become more spiritual by this? You have simply proved that you are eight
horsepower. The car is six horsepower, so you now have eight horses’
power in you.”
We still measure with horsepower because man takes a long time to forget
the old language. Now horses are disappearing, horse-drawn buggies are
disappearing. There are cars, there are airplanes, there are trains, but still we
measure their power through the horse. An eight horsepower car means
there are eight horses in your chariot.
“So of course you are more powerful than the car, but is that your goal—to
become a powerful engine in a car? And you wasted forty years in learning
the trick!” Yes, it influences people because everybody is a power tripper. It
shows what great power this man has. It makes you feel inferior; he
becomes suddenly superior.
Why do so many millions of people go on watching boxing matches? For
what? Two fools beating each other for no reason at all. If there is any

argument, sit down and settle it, negotiate. But there is no argument, no
problem; the problem is only who is more powerful. That too can be
decided in a more human way: just toss a coin and be finished. But why
beat each other and break each other’s bones? And the noses are bleeding,
and the eyes are red, and millions of people are clapping, enjoying
somehow a certain identity.
There are fans of Muhammad Ali, and there are fans of other Ali’s. So these
two fools are doing their stupidity, and a million fools are there to support
and give them the idea that they are doing something important. I cannot
see that in a little bit more enlightened humanity things like boxing can
exist.
Boxing simply looks so primitive, so ugly, so inhuman; but millions of
people… And these are not the only people: millions more will be sitting in
front of their televisions. It seems the whole humanity is somehow after
power. So whoever shows some power of any kind: power of money, power
of body, power of politics, position, status, anything, people become
impressed.
For example, Mysore was one of the richest states in India because Mysore
jungles are jungles of sandalwood, and that is the costliest wood in the
whole world. All the jungles were the private property of the maharajah of
Mysore. And Mysore has the greatest population of elephants, so Mysore’s
maharajah has the biggest tusks of elephants in his palace. It is unique,
because for thirty-six generations they have been kings.
Now there is a descendant of this family—the estate is no longer there, but
he has his private property, a palace worth fifty million or more dollars, a
vast palace all made of Italian marble. His throne must be priceless because
it has so many diamonds, so many sapphires, so many rubies, emeralds—
because Mysore has many mines, and the king had first rights to all the best
stones found in those mines. Just the gold is worth nearabout fifty million
dollars. The gold of the throne and all these diamonds and rubies and
sapphires and emeralds—there is no way to count how much they will be
worth. But that kind of throne is just one of its kind, there is no other.

This young man weighs three hundred and fifty pounds. He never goes out
of the palace. He speaks in a nasal tone, almost inaudible. He has never
spoken in public in his whole life because how can he speak? What he says
is almost inaudible; perhaps only a few servants who are continuously with
him understand him. He has an imported dog; his name is Kinky—and all
that he does is go on playing with Kinky.
Now he has been chosen as a candidate for election in India, by Rajiv
Gandhi. He will win the election, because in Mysore, who can win against
him? In Mysore the royal family is thought to be the descendants of God.
And thirty-six uninterrupted generations of royal blood—and in no small
quantity, three hundred and fifty pounds! There is no need for him to make
a public speech. He cannot, he may not even go out of his palace, but he
will win. And he has been chosen just because he has status and people
worship him. So it is impossible for anybody to stand against him. And he
has money, so he will give money to the election campaign, as much as they
want.
People are not conscious of what they are doing. Now the people who are
going to vote for this man, will you call them human beings? Perhaps
Kinky the dog is far more intelligent than the man who goes on playing
with him: he is an utter idiot. He has not done anything else in his life; but
just to belong to a royal family is enough. And he has money, and money is
power. Perhaps he may become a cabinet minister.
You are in your unconscious mind when you are fast asleep with no dreams.
Freud had reached the unconscious just by analyzing dreams. If you are on
the right track and you analyze a dream rightly, the miracle is, once the
dream is analyzed completely—that means you become aware of its reason,
why it happens, why it is, of what it is constituted—once you become aware
of a dream, its total structure, root and all, it disappears.
To summarize: to be aware of a dream is the death of the dream.
And after a few years of psychoanalysis when all your dreams slowly
disappear… Then Freud became aware that there is still another depth. He
died before he could penetrate the other depth, but he had found it,
discovered it: the unconscious.

Jung tried to go as deeply into the unconscious as possible. It is easier in
hypnosis to reach the unconscious of any person, very easy. Hence in the
future hypnosis is going to become part and parcel of every psychology. In
India it always has been, because three years of psychoanalysis is a wastage
of time. Within three minutes you can be hypnotized and all your dreaming
process can be put aside; then there is direct entry into the unconscious.
Because Jung was interested in hypnosis, Freud condemned him as
unscientific. It is not right. Hypnosis is a scientific method of digging
deeply into you. And when Jung tried to go deep into the unconscious, he
was surprised to find that underneath the unconscious there is still another
layer: the collective unconscious, the unconscious of the whole humanity.
Everybody has it; and sometimes from that collective unconscious you get
ideas, but because they come from so far away from your conscious, you
think that they are coming from somewhere outside you. When Jesus hears
the voice of God, it is not God speaking, it is the collective unconscious.
But it is so far away that poor Jesus can be forgiven. He is simply mistaken,
and he had no idea that there are depths within depths, depths behind
depths.
This collective unconscious is to do with the mythological. Hence, Jung
became interested in mythology to discover its existence, just as Freud
became interested in dreams to discover the subconscious. Mythologies are
dreams dreamed by the whole of humanity over thousands of years, but
those mythologies carry some idea, some significance. For example, the
Indian mythology that life for the first time appeared as a fish. The first
incarnation of God is Matsyavatar: incarnation as a fish. A strange
mythology—how did they figure it out?
Out of this vast world of animals, why did they fall upon the fish?—some
indication from their collective unconscious. Now science says that perhaps
life was born first in the ocean. It comes very close to the fish. And the
child in the beginning, in the mother’s womb, looks like a fish. He moves
from there and passes through all the stages that man has passed through in
millions of years—there is a point where he looks like a monkey.

Jung’s discovery of mythology and its connection with the collective
unconscious is of immense importance. But he stopped there because he
was afraid, and obsessed with death, just as Sigmund Freud was himself
obsessed with sex. Anything you brought to him—I say anything, and I
mean anything—he would immediately manage to make it sexual.
Whatever it was, it did not matter; he was capable of making it sexual.
Freud’s whole mind was focused on one point; but perhaps that’s the only
way. In a small life, what can a man do? If he can work out only one idea in
its totality, then he needs to be obsessed; otherwise it is difficult, life is so
vast. If you go on jumping all around on everything, then it is difficult for
you to move in one direction to the very end.
Hence all scientists, all philosophers, all thinkers, are obsessed with one
particular idea. And then they try to fit everything into that idea. That’s
where they go wrong. If they were a little more alert they would see that life
is vast. Their idea is meaningful, but meaningful only from a certain aspect.
Jung was very much afraid of death; he was death-obsessed. Just as
Sigmund Freud was sex-obsessed, Jung was death-obsessed. And the two
obsessions are not very different. Sex is the beginning of life and death is
the end of life. Sex is the A and death is the Z ; it is one alphabet,
connected. It is not different but distant, so distant that neither Freud nor
Jung could see that they were both concerned with one thing; but the poles
were so far apart that they were unable to join them.
Jung was very much afraid of death, and as he came closer to another layer
behind the collective unconscious he backed out. He tried many times to
approach the idea of death. He went to India because in India people have
been thinking about every possible aspect of life for thousands of years. Of
course, about death India has thought much more than anybody else—but
he avoided the man who could have been of some help.
He was asking people who were educated in the West—professors in the
universities who had western degrees, doctors who had western degrees—
because he had a fixed idea that East and West can never meet. The idea
was old; it was given by an English poet, Rudyard Kipling, that East and

West can never meet: “East is East, West is West, and never the twain shall
meet.”
Somewhere in Jung’s mind that idea remained his whole life, and he was
continually insisting to his disciples that the West had to discover its own
methods; it should not use Eastern methods, because they could prove
dangerous: “They are not our heritage.”
Now, this is a strange situation and a strange argument. A man who
discovers the collective unconscious still believes in East and West. Then
there are two collective: Eastern collective unconscious and western
collective unconscious. He never became aware of the simple fact that if
you talk about collective unconscious then East is no longer East and West
is no longer West. And if you think they cannot meet then you can come
and see here in Rajneeshpuram: they are meeting. They have met!
Just a few days ago one man from South Africa declared a new conflict. He
said the real conflict is not between East and West, it is between North and
South. That was never thought of before, it is a real discovery. But it has a
point in it. There is a conflict, just like the one between East and West
which has become famous and well known. But South and North are also in
conflict, which has not become so well known. But then there will be four
collective unconsciouses, and it is going to be very difficult.
But Jung was not aware. One thing he was certain of: Eastern methods were
not to be used. So he avoided the only man alive in India, Raman
Maharishi, who could have taken him to the lowest level which Buddha
called the cosmic unconscious. But that is almost a death. It is a death,
because you are no longer there.
The cosmos is, but you are no longer there. The seeker disappears; he has
found what he was seeking, but he is no longer there. That’s a quantum
leap.
The subconscious, unconscious, collective and cosmic unconscious—these
four layers are under your conscious. Above are also four layers. The
question is how to reach the higher states of consciousness.

The method is a very strange one, but there is only one way. You have to go
down first. You have to enter the cosmic unconscious. Unless you disappear
into the cosmic unconscious, you cannot enter into the superconscious, the
first level above conscious.
What actually happens: as you enter the cosmic unconscious, your
subconscious, your unconscious, your collective unconscious all disappear,
just like small rivers falling into the ocean—a vast ocean of cosmic
darkness. It is a death. And unless you are born again you will not enter the
kingdom of God.
Jesus must have heard that statement somewhere in India from a Buddhist
monk, because it has no source in Jewish religion. Its only source can be a
Buddhist source, because that’s what Buddha was teaching: that you dive
deep into the cosmic unconscious, and as you enter into it, all is darkness,
you are lost completely. But wait—don’t be in a hurry and don’t back out.
Don’t run back, because where will you go? You will go back again to the
same routine world in which you had lived.
Don’t run. Wait, wait a moment. And the darkness as you wait starts
becoming less and less dark. It is almost as if you are coming from the
outside in the hot sun, and enter in the house and you suddenly see darkness
because your eyes are focused for the light outside. The sunlight is so bright
that your pupils shrink. They cannot bear that much light going in, so they
become small, very small. And then suddenly you enter your house; it takes
a little time for your eyes to adjust to the new situation; the sun is no longer
there. Your pupils start becoming bigger. When they become bigger, then
the house has more light.
That’s how thieves who come into your house in the night when everything
is dark… You yourself in your own house cannot move around; you may
stumble into this desk, that table, this chair. But a thief who has never been
in your house, who knows nothing about the house enters in darkness, and
without stumbling into anything finds exactly the place where you are
keeping all your treasure. It needs training; it is an art. Of course it is a
crime. That’s another aspect; I am not concerned with that. But it is an art.

The famous Zen story is: a very great master who was also a master thief
was getting old. His son asked him, “Before you die, please teach me your
art of stealing.”
He said, “I was just waiting for you to ask because we never impose; art is
something that you should have a feel for. If you are ready, I am ready.
Today is the beginning of your teaching. Tonight you come with me.”
The old man takes the young man. The young man is trembling, his heart is
throbbing. He is looking from side to side, but the father is moving as if
going for a morning walk, at ease. He cuts a hole in the wall—the son is
perspiring and it is a cold winter night. And the father is doing his work so
silently, and so artfully, the son is amazed.
The father goes in, calls the son in. They move inside the house. The father
has the master key, he opens the doors. They reach the innermost chamber
of the palace. The father opens a cupboard, a walk-in cupboard, and tells
the son to get in. The son is trembling, just trembling. He gets in and asks,
“What I am supposed to do?”
He said, “Simply get in. You are not supposed to do anything. Simply get in
and then whatsoever happens, happens.”
He got into it. The father locked the door and ran out leaving the son inside
the cupboard, and while he was leaving the house, he shouted, “Thief!
Thief!” so the whole house woke up. All the servants were running here and
there, and were searching with torches everywhere. And they found the hole
in the wall: certainly somebody has come in. A maidservant looking closely
on the floor found some foot marks and went exactly to the wardrobe.
The son is aware; he cannot even breathe. He knows now that somebody is
there, and is coming in with a torchlight: “Soon they will open it and I am
caught. And this old man… In what unfortunate moment I asked him to
teach me the art; and is this a way of teaching? He finished me in the first
lesson!”
But suddenly—and that is God’s voice—he heard somebody inside him
saying, “Make the sound of scratching, as if a rat is inside scratching or

eating.” He could not believe it—who was speaking inside? He had never
heard such a thing: making a scratching noise like a rat? But he made the
scratching noise, and the woman opened the door, certain there was a rat
inside… She opened the door, and he came out.
She was holding just a candle in her hand. He blew the candle out and ran
away. When he was running out, people followed. He could not figure out
who had said to him: “Blow the candle out.” He had heard the voice say,
“Blow the candle out and run away,” but it was not his thinking because he
had heard it; it was coming from somewhere.
And now in the dark night, he is running and people are following him, and
they are coming closer and closer and they are shouting, “He is there! Catch
him!”—they can see him.
He comes near a well, and the voice inside him says, “Take a rock and
throw it in the well.” So he takes a rock… There is no time to question why,
and “Who are you?” and “What purpose will it serve?” These are questions
which you ask when you are conveniently, comfortably seated in a
classroom, when there is no hurry for the answer—neither do you mean that
you really need the answer. But in such a situation when he is just about to
be caught, the voice speaks and he follows.
He throws a rock into the well and runs away. Certainly, the rock falling in
the well makes a big noise, and all the people who are following him stop
near the well—they think that the man has jumped into the well. So now
some arrangement has to be made: more light has to be brought, somebody
has to go down and find out who this man is, whether he is alive or dead.
Now their whole minds are diverted.
He reaches his home, really angry, almost ready to kill the father. And the
father is sound asleep, covered with his blanket—it was a cold night. He
pulls off his blanket, and he asks, “Is this the way to teach your own son?”
He said, “Are you back? That’s enough; you have learned the art. Now go
to sleep, we will discuss it in the morning.”
But he said, “You should ask me how I managed to escape!”

The father said, “That does not matter. You are back; about the how, we will
discuss in the morning. And I know how, because the same voice that has
been speaking in you has been speaking in me my whole life. That’s why I
was the master thief. It was not the working of the brain, it was not the
working of the mind; it was from my very depths. I have followed only the
deepest in me, and I have never gone wrong.
“You are back; that simply means you heard it, and that’s the whole secret
of the art. There is no other lesson. The first lesson is the last lesson. If you
were not back it meant the student was not able to survive the first lesson:
finished. He was not capable.”
You have to take a jump. First it will be dark, very dark. Rest in that
darkness: darkness has a beauty of its own.
You have known the beauty of light, and the beauty of flowers and trees,
and men and women: that is all beauty in light, through light. It is all light
reflected: different colors, different faces, different flowers, but it is all the
world of light.
You have not known the silence, the depth, the unboundedness of darkness.
It also has its own beauty, totally different.
It is the beauty of death. And once you have allowed it to happen, once you
relax in it, you say, “Okay. If it is death then let it be death, but I am not
going back.” Once you relax in this darkness of the cosmic unconscious,
slowly it starts becoming lighter. And the first glimpse of light is the
beginning of the superconscious.
When it becomes even lighter, so that you can see the tremendous
emptiness, then it is the supersuperconscious. When it becomes so strong a
light that it becomes unbearable—again you may feel like escaping—it is
the collective conscious. It is not only your conscious, it is the
consciousness of all human beings, of the whole history, in totality,
condensed. Hence it is too bright.
Just as darkness makes you afraid, too much brightness also makes you
blind and afraid. Don’t be afraid, there is nothing to be afraid of. It is your

nature; there is nothing to be afraid of, it is your being. If you allow this
tremendous intensity of light of the collective conscious, you enter into the
cosmic conscious.
Cosmic consciousness is neither dark nor light.
If you can find just the middle point between light and darkness—very
soothing, warm from the side of light, cool from the side of darkness—it is
the meeting, the ultimate meeting of the polar opposites.
And this cosmic consciousness is what I call enlightenment.
In darkness you were lost, but the fear, the trembling, the death surrounding
you kept something of you still there: a very subtle ego which you cannot
catch hold of. You feel you are lost but there you are still, because you are
afraid. If you are not there, who is afraid? The darkness is so much that you
are focused on darkness, and you are not in your focus at all.
In the cosmic consciousness you are really lost. There is no fear, there is no
way of going back, or of going anywhere. Hence I call this the arrival—
from where you had never departed in fact. It was always there above you,
hanging above you, for millions of lives, just waiting, waiting. But to reach
it first you will have to go deep down to the very roots.
Friedrich Nietzsche again…because this man I find tremendously
insightful. On the whole he is a mess, but in fragments he has such
penetrating insight, which is rarely available anywhere else. He says,
“Before you can reach heaven, you have to reach to hell. Unless you have
fathomed hell completely, there is no way to heaven.”
It looks very absurd. And he used to write in maxims; he never wrote essays
explaining anything, that was not his way. Insights never come in essays, in
theses; they never come for PhD, DLitt degrees. No. For a PhD degree you
have to sit in a library and do a clerical job, just collecting from here and
there. You can simply take a pair of scissors and if you can cut from this
book and that book, this journal and that journal, and just go on collecting
them in a file, sooner or later you will be a PhD. There is not much more to
it.

Men like Nietzsche only write maxims. One day suddenly he will write a
maxim, and then for months he will not write. This is the meaning of what
he says… Now, Jesus cannot understand it. Jesus says, “If you want to
avoid hell, come follow me, I will take you to heaven. That’s the only way
to avoid hell.” Nietzsche is saying, “If you avoid hell, heaven is already
avoided, because heaven is a second step. You have missed the first step.”
In another passage, a similar passage, Nietzsche says, “Before you can
reach to the top of a tree and can understand the flowers blossoming there,
you will have to go deep to the roots, because the secret lies there. And the
deeper the roots go, the higher the tree goes.” So the greater your longing
for understanding, for cosmic consciousness—because that is the ultimate
lotus, the lotus paradise—then the further you will have to go to the deepest
roots in the darkest underground; and the way is only one.
Call it meditation, call it awareness, call it watchfulness—it all comes to the
same: that you become more alert, first about your conscious mind, what
goes on in your conscious mind. And it is a beautiful experience. It is really
hilarious, a great panorama.
In my childhood in my town there were no movies, talkies. There was no
cinema hall. Now there is, but in my childhood there was not. The only
thing that was available was that once in a while a wandering man would
come with a big box. I don’t know what it is called. There is a small
window in it. He opens the window, you just put your eyes to it and he goes
on moving a handle and a film inside moves. And he goes on telling the
story of what is happening.
Everything else I have forgotten, but one thing I cannot forget for a certain
reason. The reason, I know, was because it was in all those boxes that came
through my village. I had seen every one, because the fee was just one
paise. Also the show was not long, just five minutes. In every box there
were different films, but one picture was always there: the naked
washerwoman of Mumbai. Why did it used to be in every one?—a very fat
naked woman, the naked washerwoman of Mumbai. That used to be always
there. Perhaps that was a great attraction, or people were fans of that naked
washerwoman; and she was really ugly. And why from Mumbai?

If you start looking… Just whenever you have time, just sit silently and
look at what is passing in your mind. There is no need to judge, because if
you judge, the mind immediately changes its scenes according to you. The
mind is very sensitive, touchy. If it feels that you are judging, then it starts
showing things that are good. Then it won’t show you the naked
washerwoman of Mumbai, that picture will be missed out. So don’t judge,
then that picture is bound to come.
Don’t judge, don’t make any condemnation, don’t make any appreciation.
Be indifferent. Just sit silently looking at things, whatsoever is happening.
And absurd things will be happening: a horse becomes a man… Now you
need not ask why, there is no need to ask, simply see it.
For anything that is happening, you have only to be a seer.
That’s the strategy that helps the whole scenery to slowly disappear from
the conscious mind. And when the conscious mind disappears from the
screen, the subconscious starts emerging. Subconscious is more colorful,
technicolor. The conscious mind is just black and white, old style. But the
subconscious is very colorful, much more meaningful, much more truthful.
But remember not to judge; otherwise the subconscious will slip down and
you will be back into the conscious.
So two things: no judgment, just simple alertness.
Soon you will find these pictures also disappearing. Then the unconscious
appears, which has very strange things to say to you, very mysterious. No
need to be afraid; they are voices from the past, of your past lives and of
other people’s past lives. They carry pictures of your past life and other
people’s past life. Now you are moving into a denser forest, of a
tremendous magnitude. Don’t become afraid. The voices are very strong,
and it is not only voices…
The unconscious remembers not only the voices, not only the pictures, it
remembers all the experiences of all your senses. You will smell things that
you have never smelled…but sometime in a past life somewhere, you must
have smelled that smell; it is still there. You may hear music that is not

known to you. You may hear languages which you are absolutely unaware
of. You may taste the taste of strange foods. All the five senses will supply
experiences of many, many lives. You have simply to remain a seer, no
judgment. Then these start disappearing.
And when the collective unconscious opens, then animals and trees and
birds—all are available to you. You are not separate from them. Stories like
Saint Francis can be right. But there is no miracle in it. This man is perhaps
the most important man in the whole of Christian history, because he talked
to birds, animals, and they understood it. He would just sit on the bank of a
river and start calling the fishes, and the fishes would start jumping all
around him, listening to him. And he would talk to them. He would say,
“Sisters, how are you?” His disciples would think he was mad, but they
could not say that, because they could see that the fishes were listening,
nodding their heads. Even the donkey on which he used to move he used to
call “brother donkey.” He just had to say, “Brother donkey, move right”—
and the donkey would move right.
When he was dying, his last words were not said to any man, they were said
to the donkey. He said, “Thank you, brother donkey; you have carried me
your whole life and I am immensely grateful”—and there were tears in the
donkey’s eyes. As Francis died the donkey died. He could not bear the
separation.
Now, there is nothing miraculous in it. This man has moved through the
collective unconscious; perhaps just one more life and he will be able to
enter the cosmic unconscious; and from there begins the upward flight.
It’s very strange: if you want to go above consciousness, you have to go
below consciousness. But there is only one method.
My name for it is meditation.
But meditation is equivalent to watchfulness, awareness, alertness.
Chapter 12
Awareness Has its Own Rewards

What do you want man to do? What is right and wrong according to you? Is
there something like sin and its punishment too?
My concern with man is not about his doing, but about his being. And this
is a very fundamental issue to be understood by you.
All the religions have been concerned about man’s doings. They have been
labeling a few acts as wrong, a few other acts as right, a few acts good, a
few acts bad. They have not at all pondered over the real problem.
Man is asleep, and when a man is asleep the question is not what he should
do or should not do. The question is: he should be awakened, he should be
awake.
And remember, awakening is not a question of doing right, avoiding wrong;
not committing sin, doing virtue.
Man’s sleep is not an ordinary sleep. He walks, he talks, he does things, but
it is all being done in sleep. So when I say man is asleep, I mean
metaphysically, spiritually, man is asleep. He knows nothing about himself
His innermost center is in darkness, and the society, the religions, the
parents, the cultures, civilizations—nobody is bothered about his being
awake. Their concern is that he should do things which are comfortable to
them, convenient to them.
They reward you, they give you respectability, and they encourage your
greed: so even in the other life, if you go on doing the right thing you will
be immensely rewarded, and if you do the wrong thing you will be
punished, heavily punished.
Centuries of conditioning have made you ask this question. I am not at all
interested in what you do, because a man who is asleep, unaware of
himself, whatever he does is wrong.
Let me repeat it: whatever an asleep man does is wrong. He may be doing
virtuous acts: charity to the poor, opening hospitals, schools, colleges,
universities; educating people, donating to every cause, helping in every

calamity—but I still say whatever he does is wrong, because he is asleep.
He cannot do right. In sleep it has never been possible to do right.
Just the other day, my secretary brought me the news: in India, in one of the
biggest cities, Bhopal, a few days ago there has been a great accident. One
big factory which produces some poisonous gas—must be for military
reasons—exploded. It is just in the middle of the city. Two thousand people
who were close to the factory died immediately, and one hundred thousand
people have been seriously injured.
It is a big accident, and naturally—you can guess—Mother Teresa is
running from Kolkatta to Bhopal, because these people like Mother Teresa
are praying every day to the Lord, “Give us an opportunity to serve.” And
the Lord, their Lord, is so compassionate, he goes on giving opportunities to
serve. She went to Bhopal, moved around the injured, went to the families
whose people have died, and what she said to them is very important. She
said, “Don’t take it as a tragedy.”
This is what the religions have been doing for thousands of years: befooling
people. This is a tragedy. She told people, “Don’t think of it as a tragedy, it
is a great opportunity. Look positively. It has brought the best out in man.
So many people are serving others, helping in every way. Look at this side
of it: the situation has brought the best out in thousands of people. They
may never have done anything good in their life, but they are doing it now.”
But do you understand the implications of it? It means it should happen in
every factory! It should happen in every city, because it brings the best out
in people. What can be more beautiful than this? A great opportunity to be
good, to do good, to serve those who need your service, to help those who
are in a helpless condition. This is a God-given opportunity for do-gooders.
And nobody objected to her!
Perhaps I am the only person here, on this whole earth, who is objecting
that this is befooling people. This is creating a camouflage, a bogus spiritual
jargon. If God has any sense, any intelligence at all, he should find some
better way to bring the best out in people. This does not seem to be very
intelligent. If this is what God is doing then where is the Devil? And what
will the Devil do? God has taken his job too; the Devil is unemployed.

And people applauded her; she is a great saint. And what present has she
brought to them?—a small statue of Mother Mary. A great help: “Pray to
Mother Mary, and don’t take it as a tragedy and don’t complain that it is the
fault or carelessness of certain officers concerned; no, that is not good.”
Of course if those people were not careless, and those officers had not
allowed this tragedy, then Mother Teresa could not be a saint. Her sainthood
depends on these stupid officers, this bureaucracy. Now she is consoling
people, giving them the impression that it is a God-given opportunity.
Two thousand people have died, two thousand families are now on the
streets; children, wives, old parents will become beggars. One hundred
thousand people are seriously injured; many of them will die, and if they
don’t die they will live a crippled life: somebody blind, somebody without
legs, somebody without hands, somebody deaf, somebody dumb. Mother
Teresa is consoling these people, giving them a Madonna, Mother Mary’s
statue saying, “Pray to Mother Mary and everything will be okay—and
don’t complain against the officers.”
Now, that’s strange! Why?—because those officers, the government, go on
showering money on her charitable trusts: “All help to Mother Teresa, all
great titles of the country to Mother Teresa.” Every university is competing
with the others to give honorary degrees to Mother Teresa; naturally she has
to protect those people also. These people should be punished if it is their
carelessness—but she is protecting them: “Don’t complain, because your
complaining means you are taking things negatively. Take it positively.”
So she is doing two things: consoling people—which is just rubbish,
because this consolation is not going to help, the tragedy is not going to
become comedy, they will have to suffer it. And secondly she is protecting
those people whose fault it was. They should be really punished! But they
are not to be punished, “Don’t complain against them”—because she is
gathering favor with the government, gathering favor with the officials,
with the hierarchy, the bureaucracy.
And the last thing she did, which was her real purpose in going there, was
to tell her secretary to write down all the names of the orphans. Many
children have become orphans. That was her actual purpose in going there:

she is in search of orphans. She has many orphanages, which are just
factories to turn orphans into Catholics. You see the works, the miracles of
saints!
All those orphans will be taken by her. The government will be happy, the
people will be happy, the city will be happy that all those poor children…
Who was going to take care of them? They would have been a nuisance.
And in India if two thousand people die that means at least twenty-four
thousand children must have been left as orphans. This great chance she
could not miss.
Kolkatta is far away from Bhopal—a thirty-hour journey by train—but she
rushed immediately. Nobody takes note of where these orphans go on
disappearing to. She goes on collecting these orphans, then where do they
go on disappearing? She goes on giving them for adoption to Catholic
families—but remember, only to Catholic families.
One American wanted a child; he simply went for that because the doctors
had said that the situation was such that he and his wife couldn’t have
children; they would have to adopt. He simply went to India to get a child
from Mother Teresa. But he forgot one thing, that he is a Protestant. He
would have never thought about it. And when he wanted a child to adopt,
the secretary asked him about his religion, because she had to fill in the
form. When he said that he was a Protestant, she said, “There is a difficulty.
Right now we don’t have any orphans to give for adoption.”
Now, in India you don’t have any orphans…? Mother Teresa is collecting
hundreds of orphans every day. And if there was no orphan, why did you
want him to fill in a form in the first place? You should have told him
before, “There is no orphan right now, we are helpless. We will inform you;
you just leave your address.”

But the secretary was willing to give him a child—just fill in the form, and
you go in and choose a child—but as he was a Protestant. He is still a
Christian, what to say about a Hindu, a Mohammedan or a Jaina. And those
children belonged to Hindus, to Jainas, to Mohammedans.
For example, in Bhopal—Bhopal is a Mohammedan city—those children
will be mostly Mohammedans. They will not be given to Mohammedans, to
Hindus, to Jainas, no—even a Protestant Christian is denied. And what an
excuse: “There is no orphan available.” There were seven hundred orphans
already inside that orphanage, and the secretary was denying that there was
one orphan.
These children go on increasing the Catholic population. God is gracious,
compassionate: let all the factories explode! Let everybody become an
orphan so Catholics go on increasing by millions, and the pope again
becomes the emperor of almost the whole world.
There is no wonder that the pope respects Mother Teresa and gives her all
the great titles of the church. There is no wonder that she receives the Nobel
Prize, because she is being recommended even by the pope. You can’t get a
Nobel Prize unless you are recommended by a certain category of people.
Either they have to be Nobel Prize winners, or they have to be kings,
queens, presidents, prime ministers.
The pope is the king of that small kingdom of the Vatican, eight square
miles. He is the king of that kingdom—he has twenty soldiers, and six
hundred million Catholics around the world. He has great power, and
people like Mother Teresa are working everywhere to bring in more and
more people.
You ask me what I want man to do. First thing: I want man to recognize that
he is asleep, because unless he accepts and acknowledges that he is asleep
there is no possibility of waking him up. Can you wake a man who thinks
he is awake? He will slap you! “Stop all this nonsense, I am awake! What
are you doing?” First you have to recognize it, create a recognition.
I have always loved this story:

A few friends, on a full moon night, got drunk. The night was so beautiful
and they wanted to enjoy it, so they drank to the full and went to the
beautiful river. The boatmen had gone, leaving their boats on the bank on
the river. It was the middle of the night, the full moon was just above their
heads, and it was a fairy land all over.
Seeing the boats, one of the friends said, “It will be good if we go in the
boat, on the river. Just look! The moon is reflected in the river, and when
something, a waterfowl, runs over the water or takes a dip into the water,
the whole water becomes silver. The moon spreads all over the river.”
They were just a little bit awake the way man is: ninety-nine percent they
were drunk. They went into a boat, they took the oars and started moving
out into the river. The others who were just sitting went on telling the
people who were rowing the boat, “Go faster, it is so beautiful. Don’t move
so slowly, make speed.” And the oarsmen were trying hard and perspiring.
As the morning was coming closer, one of them said—because a cold wind
started blowing and they came back to their senses a little bit—one of them
said, “We must have come miles away from our place. Somebody should
get out and have a look where we are, so that we can go back home. Soon
the sun will be rising, and before that we have to get back; otherwise that
boatman whose boat we have picked up without asking will create trouble.”
One man got out and started laughing madly. They said, “Why are you
laughing?”
He said, “Just come here and you also will laugh.”
They all climbed out—and then they sat there laughing, because they had
forgotten to unchain the boat! The whole night they had rowed and had
tried to go faster and faster and they were exactly where they had started.
Not a single inch… The boat was tied on the bank, it was locked.
This is the story of man as he is.
Now, Mother Teresa must be thinking that she is doing good. I have no
doubt about her intentions, but I have tremendous doubt about her

wakefulness. She is not awake, she is fast asleep. In sleep at the most you
can go on dreaming good dreams, or bad dreams; but what does it matter? If
it is a dream, whether you dream of heaven or hell, what does it matter? In
the morning you will find both were dreams.
In a dream you can be a thief, or you can be a monk. And of course in the
dream you will enjoy being a monk and the ego that comes with it; it is part
and parcel of a very polished, cultured ego. And if you are a thief, certainly,
even in your dream you will feel bad that unfortunately you have to become
a thief. You don’t want to become one, but situations are forcing you to
become a thief even though it is a sin.
You ask me: Is there something like sin? There is only one sin: that is not
recognizing your sleep, not recognizing your state of deep hypnotic
slumber. That’s the only sin. There is no other sin.
Out of this one sin, millions of things can arise, but this is the root. And if
this sin is there you cannot do anything right. Even if you try to do anything
right you will do it for the wrong reasons, the wrong motives. The action
may look right, but the motivation will be wrong. You are wrong; so from
where can you get the right motivation?
Now, what is Mother Teresa running around for in her old age? There
should be a time of retirement even for saints. These poor saints never
retire; they become senile but still nobody retires them. Nobody tells them,
“Now retire, you have done enough. Now let others do some good works;
otherwise you will be the only monopolist in heaven. Share with other
saints also. Now retire, and we will do the good things you were doing.”
But no, saints never retire.
Sinners retire but saints never retire. Strange… It’s because the saint never
gets tired, for the simple reason that his ego goes on becoming stronger and
stronger. And he is collecting virtue; his treasure in the other world is
increasing more and more. He is coming closer to God every day, so
certainly he needs orphans, he needs accidents, he needs poor people.
On the one hand the pope says, “The idea of class struggle is a sin. The
poor have to remain poor; they should not make any effort to change the

structure of the society. This is the only society that has been given to them
by God. Who are you to think that you can improve upon it?
“If the class structure is there it is a great opportunity, not a tragedy. If you
are poor it is a great opportunity: Blessed are the poor for theirs is the
kingdom of God. If you want the kingdom of God then don’t make any
effort to change the society, to create a revolution, to create some kind of
structure where there is not so much distance between the rich and the
poor.”
I know it will be difficult for the asleep man to create a society where there
is no class at all. A classless society can only be an enlightened society.
Before that, a classless society is not possible. Marx is as much asleep as
you are. Communists are as much asleep as the capitalists.
So in Russia, what happened? Sixty years, more than sixty years passed.
They changed the old structure; now there was nobody who is rich and
nobody who was poor. That division they destroyed, but a new division
came in between the bureaucracy—one who is in the government—and one
who is just an ordinary citizen. Now all the power was in the hands of the
bureaucracy, much more so than had ever been in the hands of rich people.
Rich people had power because they had money; through money they could
purchase anything. But in communist Russia, the bureaucracy had every
power over every individual to let you live or to finish you off, to keep you
in the country or send you to Siberia to die in that eternal world of ice. They
had power over your life and death. Such power was never in the hands of
the people who had money.
Yes, the rich had certain powers. They could have a better house than you,
they could have more luxuries, more comforts than you, but they did not
have the right over your life and death. If they killed you, then in the court
they were treated in the same way as everyone else. Perhaps they may have
managed a little bit by bribing the court, the judge, but that was very
indirect, very difficult. In Russia it became blatantly naked: direct power is
in the hands of the bureaucracy.

I have heard that when Stalin died… Stalin remained in power perhaps
longer than anybody else in the whole world. Alexander the Great died very
young; he was thirty-three, the same age as Jesus was when he died.
Napoleon Bonaparte died on a small island, Saint Helena, as a prisoner.
Adolf Hitler committed suicide.
Stalin seems to be the only man in the whole of history who ruled over the
biggest of empires—because Russia is one sixth of the whole earth—for
almost half a century. He had all the powers that you can imagine. He killed
millions of people. Nobody could even raise a finger, because the moment
you raised a finger against Stalin, the next day you disappeared.
When he died Khrushchev came to power, his second man, his very right
hand. And at the first communist party meeting he spoke against Stalin. He
said, “I have been watching all these years what this man has been doing.
He has brought back the classes; only the name has changed. There are
powerful people and there are powerless people, and the distance between
them is the same as it was before. In fact the distance has increased, it has
become bigger, tremendously big”—because in a capitalist country a poor
man has every chance to move into a higher society: he can become rich.
Henry Ford was not born rich, and he became the richest man in the world,
just through his own talent, his genius. When he was a child he used to
polish boots for people. And when his children were born, he was already
moving higher and higher, becoming richer and richer. When they came
from college he said, “First, start polishing people’s shoes in front of the
factory”—where he created the Ford cars—“in front of the doors, start
polishing shoes.”
They were shocked. They said, “What are you saying? We are your sons
and we should polish the shoes of your servants, your workers?”
Henry Ford said, “That’s the way I made it, and I would not like you to just
inherit capital; that is below your dignity. You are a Ford. You have to earn
it, you have to show your mettle.” And you will be surprised—his sons had
to polish people’s shoes in front of Ford’s own factory. That man was
absolutely right: those people, starting from scratch, became rich in their

own right. And Ford said, “Now everything of mine belongs to you. You
deserve it.” But just being a son of Henry Ford was not enough.
In a capitalist society it is difficult for a poor man to rise, but it is not
impossible. In fact rich people’s children, because they are born in riches,
don’t know how to create wealth, and slowly, slowly their wealth
disappears. By the third or fourth generation you will find them on the
streets amongst the hippies. The poor man’s son knows what poverty is; it
hurts. He puts his total energy, all his talents to work. His only focus
becomes how to get out of this imprisonment of poverty.
Yes, it is difficult, but not impossible. In fact, the richest people of the
world come from poor families. But in a communist world it is almost
impossible to enter into the elite few. It is almost impossible. First, to
become a member of the communist party in Russia was very difficult.
Russia was not like other countries where you pay a little money and you
become a member of the Republican Party or the Democratic Party, the
Liberal Party or the Socialist Party. In Russia, to become a member of the
Communist Party you had to prove that you were a communist every inch,
that there was not even a lurking shadow of the bourgeoisie. And you have
to start proving it from your very childhood, because there were so many
layers of the communist party—even the kindergarten communist party!
Now what do you think of that—little kids, the kindergarten school? From
there the conditioning begins. And the teachers recommend who is possibly
the right candidate to become, one day, a member of the communist party.
Then there are youth leagues. All those kindergarten children who have
come with recommendations will not be chosen for the youth league, but
only a few of them: a few fortunate ones who have proved their devotion.
And how do you prove your devotion? A very strange method of proving
your devotion—to spy on your mother, to spy on your father, to spy on your
family and to report to the communist party that your mother has been
complaining against the government, that your father is deep down against
communism… And it is not just a question of complaint; you are arranging
murder, imprisonment—a life sentence, a death sentence for your mother
and father—and you know it.

But this is the only way to prove your devotion. Wives spying on husbands
and reporting against them, husbands are spying against wives and
reporting them. And they know what that report means. It means that
tomorrow the wife will be simply missing; you cannot even find where she
has gone. There is no case in a court, there is no question of appeal—she
simply disappears.
Either she is killed… Mostly they were killed, because Stalin never
believed in unnecessarily burdening the economy of the country with
people who were against communism, and if you keep them in prison you
have to feed them, you have to give them clothes. And why should your
country feed its enemies? What is the point? Get finished with them.
Unburden the country. And he really unburdened in millions.
Khrushchev was very angry, and he said, “This man is the greatest murderer
in history, and it is good that he is dead. We should remove his grave from
Red Square”—because when Stalin was in power, at that time he had
ordered his grave to be made near Lenin’s grave in Red Square. While he
was in power, the grave was already made according to his design,
according to his idea. It had to be the grave of one of the greatest
communists.
Khrushchev said, “We have to remove that grave. It is an ugly spot.” And
he removed it. Stalin’s bones were taken out and sent back to the faraway
Caucasus where he was born. There, near a monastery where he was
educated, is now his poor grave, made with ordinary earthen bricks. That
marvelous Italian-marble grave simply disappeared from Red Square.
While he was speaking to the communist party, a member at the back stood
up and said, “You have been with Stalin all these years; why didn’t you say
these words then?” And the man sat down.
Khrushchev said, “I will answer your question; just please stand up again
and say what your name is. Comrade, stand up again!” Nobody stood up
again. He said, “This is my answer. Why aren’t you standing up again and
saying your name? And now you know why I was silent too; because
tomorrow you would disappear. If I have lived to this day, it is because I
kept absolutely silent.” Even walls have ears in Russia; you cannot even

whisper in your bathroom, because nobody knows… And particularly
people who were in power, like Khrushchev, who was next to Stalin. His
bathroom, his bedroom, everything must have been bugged. A slight
suspicion and that was enough.
Stalin never wanted proofs for anything; just a suspicion was enough proof
for him. The idea of justice that has prevailed in the world, the whole world,
is that not a single innocent man should suffer. Even if ninety-nine
criminals have to be left unpunished, not a single innocent man should
suffer. That has been the criterion.
Stalin reversed it. He said, “Not a single criminal”—and criminal means
one who is against communism—“not a single criminal should be left, even
if ninety-nine innocent people have to be killed.” Just the suspicion was
enough; there was no need of finding proof.
And what harm was there?—because communism believes that man is only
matter. Is there any harm if you dismantle your chair? Is there any harm if
you take your clock apart and put the parts all over the place? Nobody can
call you a criminal, although the clock was something alive, moving, and all
these parts separated cannot show you the time and will not give the tick-
tock of a clock.
Marx’s idea about man is exactly like a clock; man is only a byproduct of
matter. In a certain arrangement, he speaks, talks, thinks, loves, feels—but
all these are epiphenomena, not real phenomena. Put all the parts aside, take
man apart: put the head on one side, leg on another side, hands there, heart
here, and everything stops, nothing is left. And you can weigh all the parts,
they will weigh exactly the same as the man. That is his scientific logic: that
no soul has left the body. Nothing has gone, it is the same weight. You have
just dismantled the organism—it was a machine.
According to Marx, in summary: man is a robot. So to kill a robot who is
creating a nuisance can’t be thought of as anything bad. Stalin did not think
he was doing anything bad. He was serving the society, serving the great
ideal of communism, bringing the classless society closer and closer. But all
that he brought was a new class society, divided between the bureaucracy
and the people. Now the bureaucracy is exploiting the people in every

possible way, torturing them. Every property belongs to the government;
there is no private property any more.
In the very beginning of the revolution, that is from 1917 to 1927, for ten
years, the idea was discussed continually, “Should we do the same with
women also as we have done with other property?”—because a woman is
property. She should not belong to a single man; all women should belong
to the nation.
But it seemed difficult, too difficult. The whole nation was against it.
Nobody wanted his wife just to be public property like a public bench in the
park or a public bus. Even the communists themselves were not ready for
that, although Stalin was very much in favor of it. He treated his own wife
almost like a thing; he used to beat her.
I have met Stalin’s daughter, Svetlana. After Stalin’s death she came to
India. Just by chance I happened to be in Delhi, and the woman I was
staying with… She is a rare woman. I will not tell you her name because
what I am going to say refers to people who are still alive, and particularly
to a person for whom I have tremendous respect. This woman is now
nearabout seventy-five. I have never come across a woman that old and yet
so beautiful.
She was in love with J. Krishnamurti. She wanted to marry J. Krishnamurti,
but because Theosophists did not allow Krishnamurti even to meet with any
women. They wanted him to become a world teacher, and a married world
teacher does not look right—I don’t know why. Perhaps it creates the
suspicion that whether you are a world teacher or not, if you have a wife
she will be boss. And the world teacher should not have a boss. He is the
boss. So they prevented it in every possible way. And finally J.
Krishnamurti, even though he renounced the Theosophical movement—the
world teacher status that they were going to impose on him—he continued
to have the idea that a man like him should not be married.
This is how millions of years of conditioning goes deep. If you don’t want
to marry that is perfectly okay; it is your decision to be married or not to be
married. But to make it something unholy—that is strange. He still stays in
this woman’s house if she is in Delhi, because she is in a very high

government post. Her principal house is in Mumbai. If he is in Mumbai
then he stays in her house in Mumbai.
It is because of Krishnamurti that she became interested in me, because
Krishnamurti was continually speaking against me to her. Naturally she
became interested, because if Krishnamurti speaks against me… And he
never speaks against anybody else by name, that is below him: this is a
subtle kind of ego. For example, if I criticize Mahatma Gandhi, I criticize
him openly. Krishnamurti criticizes him but he never mentions his name;
that is beneath him.
But with me Krishnamurti is really cross. And the woman’s sisters, sisters-
in-law—her whole family became very much interested in me; they were all
my people. Krishnamurti was speaking against me and all the family was
speaking for me. Finally the woman decided that she had to meet me. She
invited me, saying, “If you pass through Delhi, stay with me this time.”
I was staying with her and she told me, “Svetlana is here. Would you like to
see her?”
I said, “That’s very good. I wanted to meet Stalin, but no harm; some part
of Stalin…at least royal blood!”
When I asked her, “How was he behaving with your mother?” she just
started weeping.
She said, “He was a monster. He used to beat my mother. He used to beat
me for any small thing and we could not say a single word against him,
because he would do the same to us as he would have done to anybody else
—he would kill us. We were treated just like servants.”
Even Stalin’s wife could not enter his room without knocking and asking
permission. She had to make an appointment—and they lived just in the
same house. Stalin was very much in favor of what he called women’s
liberation. And people thought it was not women’s liberation; it was just
making all women prostitutes. Everybody was against it. The whole of the
Communist Party’s high-ranking people were against it; not a single person
was in favor. That’s why the policy was dropped.

Otherwise everything that was private became public—and by public it
simply meant it became state-owned. Your house, your horse, your hands,
your land—everything became state-owned.
Hence, in Russia it was not communism. I call it state capitalism. The state
became the only “monopolist.” In America there are many capitalists; in
Russia there was only one capitalist. And certainly to have many is better.
Rather than giving all the power to one person… And it was like a pyramid:
the communist party is the base and then slowly the pyramid becomes
smaller and smaller with higher bureaucrats and finally and ultimately
comes the central committee of the communist party with only twelve
persons.
One of the central committee will be the president and one of them will be
the prime minister. And the prime minister is the real power; the president
is only a rubber stamp. He has to sign anything that the prime minister
decides. Even if the prime minister decides that the president has to be
sentenced to death, he has to sign it. He has no other power except to stamp
it. Whatsoever comes from the prime minister, he stamps it. This is a new
class structure.
Now, the pope seems not to be aware that to call the class struggle a sin
means you are supporting not only America, you are also supporting these
communist countries. Of that he is not aware. That’s the situation of a man
who is asleep. He does not know the implications of his own words, his
own actions, because class exists everywhere on the earth. There is no
country which is classless.
And yes, it is needed that one day the world becomes classless. And by a
classless society I don’t mean communism. I simply mean enlightened
people who can see that there is no need for poverty to exist; we have
enough technology to destroy it. There is no need to destroy the capitalist.
All that is needed is to spread capitalism so that everybody becomes a
capitalist.
Now, my approach is just the opposite of communism.

In Russia, in China, in other communist countries what have they done?
They have destroyed all the capitalists and made the communist party the
only monopolizing agency, the only capitalist alive. And what have they
distributed? Poverty!—because after sixty-five years Russia was still poor,
still starving, still without enough clothes, still without enough medicine.
Seventy percent of their budget was going to the army and the piling up of
nuclear weapons.
It is such a small thing to see: if we stop the idea of war, which the pope
does not call a sin… War is okay. He does not include war in his long list of
sins. War is okay—because if he says war is a sin then all the popes up to
now have been sinners because they have been continually warring,
crusading against Mohammedans, against Jews, against everybody. And
they have been saying that the crusade is a holy war!
No war is holy. No war can ever be holy. How can destruction be holy?
How can killing be holy? How can butchering, slaughtering innocent
people, children, women, old people, be holy? It must be holy in the same
sense as the Holy Ghost: it is absolutely unholy.
But the classes are there. The capitalist wants the classes to remain because
he feels that without the poor he will not be rich. That is wrong! That is
absolutely wrong! Do you think that if poor people breathe then you cannot
breathe? All that you need is enough air.
Certainly if air is in short supply then only rich people will breathe, because
you will have to pay for it. Of course millions of poor people will die
because they cannot pay—they don’t have money to breathe. It is just like
in a desert: you have to pay for water.
When Alexander came to India he met a fakir. The name of the fakir, he
reports in his diary, does not seem to be Indian, but perhaps he misspelled
it, mispronounced it, which is natural—just like me!
The Oregonians are very angry because I pronounce it Oreg-on; it should be
Oreg-un. I cannot do that. I will go on pronouncing it Oregon. Ore gun ?—
sounds like son-of-a-gun. It doesn’t feel right.

Alexander pronounces the name of the fakir, Dandamesh. Dandamesh is not
an Indian name at all, it cannot be. It must have been Dandami. And there is
in India a sect of monks who carry a staff in their hands called a danda :
danda means “a big staff.” These monks are called Dandadhari, staff
holders; that is their symbol, their sect’s symbol. Perhaps that man was
carrying a danda and was known as Dandami: one who always keeps a
danda . He was a naked man but the danda was absolutely necessary.
You may not understand why it is so. India is so full of dogs, and for certain
reasons dogs are very much against monks, policemen, postmen: anybody
who has a uniform. All the dogs are against uniforms. I don’t know whether
it is true in other countries or not, but in India… Indian dogs are absolutely
against uniforms; anybody in uniform will be in trouble. And because of
non-violence dogs cannot be killed, so their population goes on increasing.
This staff was invented so that the poor monk, who has nothing, can at least
protect himself against the dogs, because naked men also look like they are
in a uniform, to the dog. In a way it is a uniform. All the naked monks, and
there are many… And at the time when Alexander went to India, India was
full of naked monks. The poor naked monk had to keep the danda , the staff.
He met Dandami, and a small dialogue between the two happened.
Dandami was so blissful that Alexander felt jealous. He writes in his
memoirs, “I felt jealous. That man had nothing except a staff and he looked
so fulfilled, so contented, so immensely rich that I, Alexander the Great, the
very great conqueror of the whole world, standing before him, looked like a
beggar. The very flavor of the man was that of an emperor.”
Alexander said to Dandami, “I would love it if you can accept my
invitation. I would like to take you to Greece, particularly, because my
teacher”—his teacher was Aristotle—“has asked me when I was leaving for
India, ‘If you come across a real sannyasin—because a sannyasin is
something Eastern—if you find a real, authentic sannyasin, invite him as a
royal guest and bring him here. I would love to see and meet a sannyasin. I
have heard so much; so many rumors have been coming about
sannyasins.’”
Dandami laughed and he said, “What can you give to me?”

Alexander said, “Whatever you ask.”
He said, “If I ask for half of your kingdom?”
For a moment Alexander was stunned; what to say? But before he could say
anything, Dandami said, “Okay, I ask for the whole kingdom. Don’t be
worried. I can see your worry—it is not up to your standards to give just
half the kingdom. Okay, you give me the whole kingdom.”
Alexander said, “You are asking too much. I had never thought…”
But Dandami said, “Do you think your kingdom is too much? In a desert
you would give it for one glass of water; that’s the value of your kingdom.
Keep it, I was just joking. I am not going anywhere. If Aristotle wants to
see a sannyasin he will have to come here. The thirsty go to the well, not
the well to the thirsty. Tell Aristotle that you have met me. But your
kingdom is not worth more than a glass of water. In the last stage in a
desert, at the last moment when you are thirsty and dying, and somebody
says, ‘Here is a glass of water, but I want your whole kingdom’ what will
you say?”
Alexander had to accept it: “Yes, I would give the whole kingdom for one
glass of water.”
When water is scarce then of course rich people will be able to have control
over water. If air becomes one day scarce, as is possible, because with more
and more great happenings like Bhopal—that great opportunity, where the
best comes out of man… The air is becoming polluted, so much so that
soon you will see that only rich people will be capable of breathing—not
everybody—because they will have stores of oxygen and oxygen masks.
Just let there be a nuclear war anywhere and you will see that rich people
will have facilities to protect themselves, and poor people will simply be
dying.
There is no need for war; there is no need for poverty. We have enough
money, enough resources, but seventy percent of the whole world’s
resources goes towards war. If that seventy percent is prevented from going
towards bringing death to humanity, there is no need for anybody to become

less rich. The living of all poor people can be raised higher. Marx’s idea,
Lenin, Stalin, Mao—their whole philosophy is to bring the richer people
down to the level of the poor people. That they call communism; I call it
stupidity.
My idea is to raise every poor person higher and higher and bring him to the
level of the richest person. There is no need for poverty.
I will also have a classless society, but it will be of rich people. If Marx
succeeds, he will also have a classless society—but phony. First, it will be
of poor people. Secondly, because of those poor people, you will need a
very strong and powerful bureaucracy to keep them down; otherwise they
will revolt.
In America there is a possibility of a revolution, but in a communist Russia
you cannot conceive even the idea of revolution. You cannot talk with
anybody about revolution. The very word will be enough for you to
evaporate in some gas chamber.
Russia is not classless, China is not classless, America is not classless. Yes,
there are different classes, but nobody is classless. And when the pope says
that the idea of a class struggle is a sin, he certainly implies that the idea of
creating a classless society is also a sin. No, the poor should remain poor,
the rich should remain rich.
The very idea of class helps the so-called religions, because if everybody is
rich and everybody has everything that is needed and everybody lives
comfortably and luxuriously, who is going to bother about your heaven?
Instead people will pray, “Please, send me back to the earth. I don’t want to
come to your heaven.”
In the first place heaven will be a very ancient place—perhaps even bullock
carts may not be available there, because I have never heard that God
created bullock carts. And the spinning wheel… I sometimes feel sad for
Mahatma Gandhi: if he has reached heaven, what will he be doing?—
because the spinning wheel is not available there. There is no mention in
any religious scripture that the spinning wheel is available to the angels.

Mahatma Gandhi will be simply dying to get back to the earth to find his
spinning wheel again, because the whole day he was spinning. In the train,
traveling, he was spinning; talking to people, he was spinning; dictating
letters, he was spinning; dictating articles, he was spinning. He carried the
spinning wheel everywhere.
There is no need for poverty, but the spinning wheel will keep people poor.
Even if you spin for twelve hours a day you will not be able to create
enough clothes for yourself. And there are other things to do, not just make
clothes. You will need to eat something, drink something. And there are
many other things you will need, not just clothes. Even if after twelve hours
spinning you can make enough clothes to cover your body somehow, by
that time the body will have disappeared because there will not be any food.
Gandhi wanted cultivation also to be done by ancient methods. That would
mean that India had to fall back to Buddha’s time, twenty-five centuries
back. Then there were only twenty million people in India. Now there are
seven hundred million people in India. You would have to cut out six
hundred and eighty million people completely. And this will be non-
violent?
Yes, two million people, twenty million people are capable of living by
ancient methods—a little food they can manage—but what to do with seven
hundred million people? India soon will be the biggest country in the world,
it will have gone ahead of China. Right now China has the biggest
population: India will have passed beyond it soon. But there will be more
orphans, more poor people to be converted to Catholicism, to be made
Christians, and more Saint Teresas.
No, a man asleep cannot do right. You ask me what is right, what is wrong?
I say to you to be awake is right. To be asleep is wrong. I don’t determine
acts wrong and right as such. My focus is your being. My effort is that you
are there, in your being.
Then whatever you do is right.

A Zen monk used to steal—and he was a great master—but I say it was
right because he was fully awake. Now, stealing in itself does not matter;
whether it is right or wrong. It is a question of who is doing it. And why
was this master stealing? He had never said why in his whole life.
All his disciples suffered for it because everybody was telling them, “What
kind of master have you got? He talks about great things and then suddenly
one day you find him stealing some small thing. And he always gets caught.
Even ordinary thieves don’t always get caught. And you say he is fully
aware, careful, alert. And we understand, because even his disciples have a
different quality surrounding them. And we know your master, we see him.
We are surprised—why should he steal?”
And the disciples used to ask him and he would simply laugh. At last, when
he was dying, a disciple said, “Now at least tell us why you were doing this
stupid thing. And you have not been stealing big treasures or anything, just
somebody’s cup and saucer, somebody’s coat, somebody’s shoes, even one
shoe!—which is meaningless. What were you going to do with one shoe?
And then too you would be caught. And the judges are tired of you, the
jailers are tired of you.”
At the last moment he said, “I was stealing because nobody takes care of
those thieves and prisoners inside the jail. That’s a great place to teach
awareness; and those people are very innocent. And I love them because I
have found them getting the idea more quickly than the so-called ordinary
people. So I have been stealing and going inside the jail because that was
the only way to get in. But those idiot judges would not send me for a long
time, for two months, three months, because I am a great Zen master.
“I used to tell them, ‘Give me as long a term as you can manage,’ and they
would say, ‘What kind of man are you? We respect you. What do you want
for just stealing one shoe—that we should send you for your whole life?
Fifteen days will do.’”
He used to quarrel: “No, not fifteen days. At least three months, four
months.”
“But for what?” they said.

He simply said, “I love to be there. Outside I don’t like it at all.”
Jailers were tired, and they would see him and say, “Again!”
He said, “Where to go? Outside I don’t like it at all. Inside the jail looks
almost like my home.”
And in fact it was his home because almost his whole life he had lived
there. For just a few days he would be out, and then soon he would be in
again. But he changed thousands of people inside the jail. He said, “Where
can you get so many people? In the monastery people come, but not in such
quantity; and not such qualitatively innocent people.”
So to me it is not a question of what you do: the act is neither right nor
wrong, the act is neutral. It depends on who does it, that person’s integrity,
awareness. If an awakened man is doing it, it is right. Otherwise whatever
you do, it is going to be like Mother Teresa’s work: on the surface looking
really great; deep down just third-rate.
You also ask: Is there something like sin and its punishment? I have told
you there is only one sin: that is unawareness. And you are being punished
every moment for it. There is no other punishment.
Do you want more? Your suffering, your misery, your anxiety, your anguish
—and you are still hoping to be thrown in hell? You are not satisfied with
all the misery that you are going through? What more punishment is there?
Each moment of unawareness carries its own punishment, and each moment
of awareness carries its own reward. They are intrinsic parts, you cannot
divide them.
Chapter 13
Science Plus Religiousness—The Dynamic Formula for the Future
It seems that all the pioneers in art and science have reached the unknown
spaces through some kind of obsession. What kind of obsessions has the
new religious man?

Science, art, and other dimensions open to the human mind are all one-
dimensional—hence the obsession. The mind moves in one direction,
dropping all others. It chooses a single point to be focused on, against the
whole of life, hence the obsession. Concentration is obsession, but there is
no other way—science and art can work only obsessively.
For example, a man like Albert Einstein… He is a man of tremendous
intelligence, a superb genius, but he is obsessed. He is so much in his own
dimension, the world of stars, the universe, that by and by he becomes
completely blind to everything else. He forgets when he has to go to sleep,
he forgets when he has to come out of his bathroom.
Sometimes for six hours Einstein used to remain in his bathtub—till his
wife started making too much fuss, knocking on the door. And she was
understanding, hence she tolerated as much as was possible—but six hours
in the bathtub! And she would be sitting with his lunch getting cooler and
cooler and colder and colder, and she knew it was not good to disturb him
because even while he was in his bathtub playing with the soap bubbles, his
mind was moving into depths of the universe.
He discovered his theory of relativity in his bathroom. He used to say,
“Don’t disturb me. Nothing is more important. When I am moving in a
certain direction, and I am coming close to the clue, and you knock on the
door… Let lunch be cold, throw it away, because just for your lunch you
have distracted me. I was just getting close; now I am as far away as I was
before. And nobody knows when again I will come so close to the point. It
is not within my hands.” Now, this man is certainly obsessed.
Edison was a great genius; perhaps nobody else has so many discoveries to
his name, to his credit, as Edison: one thousand discoveries. But he was so
obsessed that once he forgot his own name. That is a very rare possibility,
most improbable—forgetting one’s own name! Then you can forget
anything.
It was before the First World War, when, for the first time in the world,
ration cards were invented, and he had gone to take his ration. He was
standing in a line and people went on moving forward. When his number
came and he was at the front of the line, they called again and again,

“Thomas Alva Edison, is there anybody by the name of Thomas Alva
Edison?” And he looked here and there: who is this Thomas Alva Edison?
One neighbor standing behind, far back in the line, said, “What are you
looking at? You are Thomas Alva Edison, I know you.”
He said, “If you say so, then certainly I must be, because you are such a
nice guy, you can’t lie.”
What happened to him? How did he forget his name? Even standing in the
queue for the ration card, he was not there. He was in the world of
electricity. He was figuring out things which had no concern with the place
where he was standing or with the ration card or with the person named
Thomas Alva Edison.
It is said… Perhaps it is just a joke, but it is possible that if a man can forget
his own name it may be true and not a joke. He was going on a journey. He
kissed his maidservant thinking she was his wife, and patted his wife
thinking she was the maidservant. They both were shocked. But he said,
“What is the matter? Why are you both looking shocked? Aren’t you my
wife and isn’t she my maidservant?” And he was not joking; he was simply
not there.
Obsession means you are possessed by some idea so totally that everything
else becomes absolutely unimportant, everything else falls into darkness.
Only one spot remains lighted, and it goes on growing narrower and
narrower and narrower. That’s the way of discovery. When it comes to be
the narrowest, you have found the center for which you have been looking
for years. But when your focus is narrowing, and when the circle of your
focus is becoming smaller and smaller, what about you? You are also
becoming narrower and narrower—one-pointed. The whole universe
disappears for you.
The scientist is bound to be obsessed: the greater the scientist, the bigger
the obsession. Hence, obsession is not a disease for a scientist, it is
absolutely necessary. It is his way of working. If you relieve him of his
obsession he will be an ordinary man, not a scientist.

It is defined, that science knows more and more about less and less. The
object of knowledge becomes less and less, and your knowledge of it
becomes more and more. If the definition is stretched to its logical
conclusion, it means science ultimately will come to a point where it knows
everything about nothing. That will be the logical conclusion.
And science is coming closer to that point where it knows all about nothing,
because “less and less” is finally going to become nothing. And knowledge
about “more and more” is finally going to become all.
The situation of religion is just the opposite. It knows less and less about
more and more. Obviously a religious man becomes more and more non-
obsessed. The more he becomes religious, the less obsessed he is. His
method is to know less and less about more and more. His ultimate
conclusion is to know nothing about all. That’s why Bodhidharma says, “I
know nothing.” Socrates says, “I know nothing.”
Nothing about what?—about all.
The focus is no longer there. The religious man is just a presence opening
into all dimensions simultaneously.
Art is similar to science. Everything except the authentic religion is bound
to be a kind of an obsession, for the simple reason that you have to go
deeper and deeper to find the source of something; but your vision becomes
narrower, and everything else starts falling out of your vision. You don’t
see, you become more and more blind about everything else except the one
thing with which you are obsessed.
The painter, while painting, is not aware of anything; the poet also.
One of the greatest poets of India, Rabindranath Tagore, used to lock
himself in his room or in his porch for days together. He was not to be
disturbed for food or anything. Nobody knew what he was doing inside his
room because he had locked it from the inside. Sometimes three days would
pass and the whole family would be in a panic, wondering whether that man
was still alive or dead. But there was no way to disturb him. They would all

move around outside his room just to figure out if there was some noise
inside or not, at least some indication that he was still alive.
When he was asked, “Why do you do it?” he said, “Unless I forget the
whole world, and my family…” His family was a big family. His father was
one of the richest men in Bengal, his grandfather was even richer. The
British government had given them the title of rajah, the king, although they
were not kings. But they had so much land and so much property and so
much money that they were equivalent to any king; they had their own
kingdom.
There were one hundred people in the family. Rabindranath writes in his
autobiography: “There were many people that I never came to know who
they were. Guests used to come and then never go, and nobody would
bother about it. Faraway relatives would appear—nobody had heard about
them, they just used to declare that they were faraway cousins. That was
perfectly okay, they were allowed in the family. They stayed in the family,
they lived in the family, and they were so rich that nobody bothered
whether these people should work or anything.
So, Rabindranath says, “In that family it was always a marketplace. It was
impossible to be in that space where poetry becomes possible. It comes only
when you are alone. It is very shy, it is very feminine; it won’t come in a
crowd. It won’t come if you are concerned with something else. It will
come only when you are concerned only with it. It is very possessive, just
like the feminine. Of course, as graceful as the feminine, and as shy as the
feminine, but of course, as possessive too.”
He said, “When I am possessed I don’t want any disturbance. So many
times I have missed, and a half poem has remained half. I could not manage
that space again; the remaining lines never came. And I am not a poet who
will compose poetry just intellectually. If it comes from the beyond, I am
receptive.”
And that beyond is really within your unconscious; it comes from there. But
it looks like it is coming from the beyond.

Now, if you cure the poet of obsession, you kill him. Sigmund Freud is not
needed by poets and scientists and artists. He will destroy them all. He will
psychoanalyze them, disperse their obsession, and they will be reduced into
ordinary human beings. But religiousness is not one-dimensional, hence
there is no need for any obsession. In fact, if you are obsessed you cannot
be religious.
Yes, these people—scientists, poets, painters, musicians, dancers—have
sometimes reached into unknown spaces through their obsession. But those
unknown spaces are not spiritual spaces; they are within the mind, and they
belong to some part below the conscious mind, either to the unconscious or
to the collective unconscious or to the cosmic unconscious.
The deeper the space is, the more unknown it is. But just because it is
unknown does not mean that you have touched something spiritual. It is
unknown but part of the unconscious world of your mind—it is not
spiritual. It is tremendously exciting because it is so unknown. You have
entered into an unknown corner of your being.
It is just a tremendous discovery, but still it is not religious. It won’t bring
you to the ecstasy and the blessing of a religious man. On the contrary, it
may create a tremendous anguish in you, a tension which is unbearable, a
nightmare which is pure suffering. Hence, you will find poets, musicians,
scientists, in a kind of anguish. What they are doing is certainly a kind of
fulfillment to them, but it does not bring solace to the soul.
Albert Einstein, before dying, said, “If I am born again I would prefer to be
a plumber than to be a physicist.” What anguish he must have suffered, that
he is ready to become a plumber and does not want to be a physicist again!
—because any obsession is a torture. You are being stretched. It is not a
harmonious growth of your being because it is one-dimensional. It is as if a
man’s head starts growing and becoming bigger and bigger and bigger; the
whole body shrinks and the head becomes so big that he can only stand on
his head, there is no other way. The body cannot support the head.
In Japan they have dolls called daruma dolls. Daruma is the Japanese name
for Bodhidharma. Those dolls are beautiful. They represent Bodhidharma:
their bottom is heavy, very heavy, so you throw the doll in any way, and it

will always sit in the lotus posture again. Because the base is heavy and the
head is light, and the whole body is light, it cannot remain in any other
position. If you put it in any other position it will immediately turn and sit
in the lotus posture. The daruma doll was created because of a certain
statement of Bodhidharma. He said, “When you become really centered in
your being, nothing in the whole of existence can create even a slight
trembling in you. No fear is possible. And when you are centered in your
being, even if the whole of existence wants to throw you upside down, it is
impossible; you will always come rightside up.” That gave the idea of the
daruma doll.
The religious man is multidimensional. All his windows and all his doors
are open. His consciousness is available to everything.
He is not looking for a certain discovery, he is not looking even for God.
That is why I am continually saying to you, “There is no God, don’t look
for him otherwise you will be obsessed. That’s why I call all the religions
that have existed up to now pseudo-religious: they are obsessed, just like
anybody else—in fact, more obsessed.
What is a Tibetan monk doing his whole life?—just repeating the name of
Buddha. If that is not an obsession, then what can be an obsession?—and a
useless obsession too. If Albert Einstein is obsessed, at least he contributes
to the world. He suffers, but he gives something to the world.
These Tibetan monks, what have they given to the world? The Hindu
monks, what have they given to the world? What is their contribution? Of
the Christian monks, the Catholic monks alone are one million in number.
One million monks! And what is their contribution? They are just burdens
on humanity—obsessed people, but obsessed with something that does not
exist; hence there is no contribution.
The scientist is obsessed with something that really exists—he is obsessed
with some objective reality. The poet is obsessed with something of
subjective reality. But your pseudo-religious man is obsessed with a God
which does not exist, and out of a non-existent God what are you going to
get? Where are you going to reach? These monks are moving in circles their
whole life. They are obsessed.

So let me make it clear to you. If you find a religious man obsessed, then
that is enough proof that he is not religious. A really religious man is not
obsessed at all. He is open to the whole. And he is not concerned in any
way to discover something, to create something: a song, a painting, a dance,
a sculpture. No, he is not concerned.
It is possible that a really religious man may create a song, but that is just
play; he is not serious about it. It is just… You are sitting on the beach and
you start playing and making a statue out of wet sand. You are not obsessed
with it; there is no need to complete it. And when you leave you may give a
hit to the statue that you have been creating for hours.
This was not an obsession, you were just being playful. Sitting alone… You
were not doing something serious. A religious man sometimes composes
poetry or music or dance or a statue or a painting, but they are all just
games.
There are millions of statues in the East so beautiful that Michelangelo
would feel jealous, but the sculptors have not even signed their name: that
would become a serious affair. Millions of statues of the same caliber and
quality as those of Leonardo da Vinci or Michelangelo—but nobody knows
who made them. The people who made them were just enjoying, playing. If
something comes out of play, you cannot claim it is your creation and that
you have to sign it.
Who made the Ajanta caves?—the Ellora caves? Who made the Khajuraho
temples? Who made the Konarak temples? There is no way to find out. The
people who made such tremendous beauty, incomparable, were not
concerned at all to leave even a single trace behind. They enjoyed making
it, of course, but that was all. It was not an obsession.
If you go to the Ajanta caves, which are Buddhist caves, where for
thousands of years Buddhist monks must have been working… Many caves
are incomplete. I used to go there, and I asked the guides—different guides
—again and again… There were many guides, and I would always choose a
different one so I could torture him. Incomplete caves, incomplete statues,
Buddhas only half-made… And I would ask, “What was the matter?” And
they would have no explanation.

Somebody said, “Perhaps the artist died.”
I said, “There were so many other artists—there must have been thousands
of artists for so many caves; each cave must have needed hundreds of artists
to make it—couldn’t they even complete a Buddha? Just the body is there,
the head was just being started. This looks a little disrespectful to Buddha.
You should complete it.”
And they would say, “What can we do? Nobody knows who made them.
Nobody knows why they stopped in the middle.”
I said, “I know, that’s why I am asking. This whole thing was just a big
game. The person who was making it was not obsessed, otherwise he would
have completed it. If he was dying, he would have taken a promise from a
friend to complete it.”
The obsessional man is a perfectionist. He will not leave anything
incomplete, he will make it entire; he will not rest till it is complete. But to
a religious man… They played as long as they enjoyed it. The moment they
felt it was time to stop this game, they stopped the game. And because they
stopped the game, no other artist—they were all religious people—would
interfere with it.
Anybody could have completed it; just a little work was needed and it could
have been completed. It was almost complete, but nobody interfered with it
because that was trespassing. If that man wanted his Buddha to remain this
way, it was his business. And that man may have started something else,
because it was all play.
A religious man can create playfully but cannot be serious.
Seriousness is part of obsession. For example, Karl Marx is the ideal
obsessional man. His whole life he spent in the British Museum library. He
had no actual experience of poverty; he had never been part of the
proletariat, the laborers for whom he was going to be the messiah. He had
not a single friend who was a laborer.

He had only one friend, who was a capitalist, Friedrich Engels. And he had
to be friendly towards Engels because who was going to feed him? His
obsession was to create the whole philosophy of communism, in its entirety,
so there would be no need for anybody else to add anything. He was a Jew
—and somehow it is very difficult to get rid of your conditioning. Although
he became an atheist, denied God, denied the soul, a Jew is a Jew—he
wanted to make communism absolutely complete.
Before the museum library was open, he was standing there at the door. The
librarian would come after him; before he came, Marx was waiting. And the
whole day he was in the library. The library would be closed, and the
librarian would be persuading him, “Now, please stop. Come tomorrow.”
And Marx would say, “Just wait a few minutes longer; something is still
incomplete. I have to complete this note.”
In the beginning they used to be nice to him. Finally they found this was not
going to help: they had to forcibly throw him out of the library. Four people
would take him out, and he would be shouting, “Just a few minutes longer!
Now, are you mad, or what? What are you doing? Tomorrow I will have to
work hours to find those few sentences that I could write just now. Just
wait!”
But the library has to be closed at a certain time, and those people have to
go to their homes. They are just servants. They don’t care about your
communism and what philosophy you are writing. And you have been
doing this for twenty years, thirty years, forty years! Forty years
continuously! And sometimes it used to happen that he would not eat. The
food would be with him, because he used to come with his food so that he
did not have to go home or to a hotel and waste time.
So he would be just eating and referring to encyclopedias and books: with
one hand he would be continually writing, and with the other hand he
would be eating. And sometimes he forgot to eat; and as he became older,
many times it happened that he was taken not to his home but to the
hospital, because he was found unconscious: hungry, continuously reading,
writing, reading, writing.

One feels sad that nobody reads this poor Karl Marx’s book, Das Kapital —
nobody! I have not come across a single communist who has read it from
the first page to the last. Perhaps I am the only person who has read it from
the first page to the last—just to see what kind of madman this Karl Marx
was. And he was certainly a madman—so obsessed with economics, with
exploitation, that he forgot the whole world.
He forgot small things. He was moving into the higher realms of
mathematical theorizing, and he forgot simple mathematics, simple
economics. He was a chain-smoker; he was reading, writing—and smoking.
His wife, his physician, his friend Engels were all worried that this smoking
would kill him.
One day he came home with big boxes of a certain cigarette that had just
come on the market. His wife could not believe it: “Are you going to open a
shop? Are you going to sell cigarettes? So many big boxes!”
And he was so happy. He said, “You don’t understand. I have found this
new cigarette, just introduced on the market. And the cigarette that I was
smoking was costing double. Now with this cigarette you smoke one
cigarette, and you save so much money; you smoke two cigarettes and you
save so much money again. The more you smoke, the more money is saved!
And I am going to smoke them because everybody has been torturing me,
saying, ‘You don’t earn.’ Now you will see how much money is saved.”
The wife thought, “Your economics…!” She informed his friend Engels,
and called him to come immediately. “Your friend seems to have gone
completely mad, because this stupid thing even I can understand. How will
money be saved? But he does not listen and he is just in his room smoking
two cigarettes together, to save money!”
Engels came, took the cigarettes from his mouth and said, “Are you mad?
What are you doing?”
He said, “I am just trying to do something so that I need not depend on you:
I am saving money.”

It was so difficult to explain to him, “Nothing will be saved, you will
simply kill yourself. Yes, in figures it looks as if you smoke one cigarette
and half the money is saved, but in actuality there is no money saved. And
just to save that money you will be smoking double, treble, four times the
number of cigarettes. So in fact you will be wasting more money than you
were wasting before. And money is not the question,” Engels said, “I take
care of it. You need not be worried about it.” He was a millionaire, owned
factories, and he loved Karl Marx.
But Marx was so obsessed with making the system complete. And of course
he has left a complete system; after Marx there has been no addition to it.
To add anything to it, first you will have to read him, and that is going to
drive you nuts.
Aristotle has created a whole system of logic; that was his obsession. Just a
single man… His whole life his whole obsession was this: that the system
of logic that he was creating should be complete, he should leave it with a
closed chapter. So for future generations, for the whole future eternity, he
would remain the logician, the only logician. And he completed his system.
Of course he was obsessed. Day and night he was working: he wouldn’t
sleep until he fell asleep on his books. But these people are not religious
people.
You ask me, what kind of an obsession will the new religious man have?
The new religious man is simply the religious man. The old religious man
was not religious, he only pretended to be religious. He made religion also
an obsession. He was more obsessed than the scientist, than the painters and
poets—because at least poets were going to the coffee house, meeting with
the friends, doing things other than poetry. Painters were not only painting,
they were doing a thousand and one other things too. But these pseudo-
religious people were not doing anything else. They closed themselves in
cells, in monasteries, and all that they were doing was nagging God.
Nietzsche said, “God is dead.” Nobody asked him, “Who killed him?” I
know: these so-called religious people! They nagged him for centuries. And
all kinds of religious people, in all languages, nagging a single poor God—
he must have committed suicide. His suicide is more probable than a natural
death. He cannot die a natural death; he must have committed suicide.

But those people are still after him. Even in his grave he will be tossing and
turning, because the Catholic is shouting in his ear, the Protestant is
shouting in his ear, and then come the witnesses of Jehovah, who can drive
anybody nuts. All these people, all around the world, day and night, year in,
year out, after just one single poor old God. These people must have
provoked the desire for suicide in him.
It is a known fact that God never created anything after he created man. I
have been wondering why. Why did he stop with man? Up to man’s
creation; everything was good. The horses were not becoming monks. The
donkeys were not becoming priests. The monkeys were not declaring
themselves popes. God was happy. It is said that he created each thing and
said, “Good”—just the way I say, “Good.” He must have learned it from me
because I don’t know anybody else who says good the way I say good. But
when he created man he didn’t say that.
He must have lost his nerve—“What have I done?”—because immediately
man must have created the business of the so-called religions. He must have
caught hold of his feet immediately: “God, my Lord…” Since then nobody
has heard about him, where he is. Either he escaped to the farthest star—
and physicists say those stars are running farther away; perhaps it is
because of God.
Those stars are not static there. That was the idea up to this century, that the
stars are static there, far away, but they are there. Now physicists say that
they are not there. Where you see the stars in the night, there they may have
been millions of light-years ago. The light has reached your eyes tonight,
but light takes time to travel.
Where you see a certain star tonight. one thing is certain: it is not there. It
may have been sometime far, far back—perhaps when the earth was not
made, when even your solar system was not in existence, the star was there.
That day the light started moving towards the non-existent earth and the
non-existent sun, and it has arrived today. That much time it took to reach.
Meanwhile the star is not sitting there. The light is coming towards you and
the star is going farther away with the same speed as light—that is, at one
hundred and eighty-six thousand miles per second, the light is coming
towards you and the star is going away from the point where it was.

Perhaps God is riding on the farthest star and running as fast and as far
away as possible from all these prying monks and religious people and
churches, temples, mosques, synagogues. But it is better to say that there is
no God, it saves God all the trouble. And one day it will save man also from
this stupid obsession.
The religious man has no obsession. His life is simple, natural, spontaneous,
moment-to-moment. He has no great ideas that he wants to bring to the
world. He has no great ideologies that he wants to impose on humanity.
He is a simple man. That’s why it is very difficult to find a religious man,
because he will be so simple and so ordinary that you are going to miss
him. He won’t have any talent. He will not be a Picasso, he will not be an
Einstein, he will not be a Stalin; he won’t have any kind of talent. You will
not be able to judge his genius because his genius is unobsessed, so he
cannot produce science, he cannot produce new discoveries, new
inventions.
It is not just a coincidence that in the East, where religion has existed for at
least ten thousand years… And there have been a few authentically
religious men. Of course there has not yet been an authentic religion; but
here and there, once in a while, there have been authentic religious men.
But the East has not been able to create science. Do you think Buddha had
not the genius equivalent to Albert Einstein? He had a far bigger, higher,
deeper genius than any Albert Einstein could ever have. But he is not
obsessed, hence his genius does not move in one direction. His genius
becomes a fragrance around him, becomes a light around him. Those who
have eyes can see the light. Those who have ears can hear the music around
him, can hear the silence that surrounds him, can smell the fragrance of the
man.
But Buddha is not going to invent a computer. He is not obsessed; he is
absolutely unobsessed. So you can feel his genius, but you cannot see it
reflected in some objective achievement. What is his achievement? Far
smaller people have achieved much more. He has not achieved anything,
but he has been just himself. If you can call it an achievement, then call it
an achievement. But it is not achievement.

What he is, he has always been. An achievement means something that was
not there and now is there. But to realize oneself; to know oneself, is not to
bring any new thing into existence. It has been there; whether you know it
or not does not make any difference to its existence. It has been there. It is
there. Yes, there was a time when you were keeping your back to it, and
now you have taken a one-hundred-and-eighty-degree turn and you are
facing it—but nothing new has come into existence.
You can feel that experience—yes, it is an experience. All that you need is
to be receptive, available, open, because a man like Buddha cannot even
knock on your doors: even that will be interfering with somebody else’s
being.
Buddha can stand before your doors and wait till eternity: someday you
may open the door, someday you will invite him in. Without your invitation
he is not going to come in. There is not a question of ego. It is your house,
you are the host, and unless you invite him it is not right to trespass on your
privacy in any way.
Buddha became enlightened—but for seven days he remained silent. And
he gave many arguments why he remained silent for seven days; in fact he
wanted to remain silent forever. Later on when he was asked again and
again why he had remained silent for seven days and then had spoken, he
said, “Even to speak is to interfere; let the other understand the silence. And
if he cannot understand the silence, do you think he will understand my
words?—because my words will be far away from my silence, they won’t
be representative. There is every possibility he may be misguided by my
words, and I may be helpless to prevent it. In silence if somebody comes to
me, he cannot misinterpret it. He may understand, he may not understand;
there are only two possibilities, and I will not be responsible for sending
him on a track which was not my intention at all. But my words can take
him in a direction which is not the direction I am pointing at.”
So for seven days he remained silent and people asked, “Why did you
speak?”
He said, “Now, this you will have to just take on faith, if you trust me. But
there is no need to accept it, because it is meaningless. I was persuaded by

other enlightened beings who are in the cosmos. But this you will have to
take it on faith, unless you reach that state.” He insisted, “This should not
be part of my teachings; I am just fulfilling your curiosity. You can reject it
because it is not an essential part of my teaching. But if you insist on asking
why I spoke, then I have to answer you.
Buddha said, “People who have become enlightened before persuaded me,
argued with me. They said, ‘In thousands of years a man comes to the state
of being where you are. Even if out of a hundred people, one person
understands your words rightly, that is enough. Don’t be worried about the
ninety-nine because they will go astray even without hearing you. They are
bound to go astray.
“‘If they can go astray even hearing you, then what do you think—that
without hearing you they will not go astray? Take it for granted: those
ninety-nine are determined to go astray whether you speak or not. But what
about that one percent? We appeal to you for that one percent who may not
be able to find the path without your speaking.’”
And Buddha said, “I am speaking for that one percent.”
Strangely, I am still speaking for that one percent.
The world has not moved a single inch. Twenty-five centuries and man is as
blind, as asleep, and unconscious as he ever was.
Charles Darwin was absolutely wrong, because looking at man there seems
to be no evolution: as far back as we can see, he is the same. If for ten
thousand years there has not been any evolution in man, do you think one
day suddenly a few monkeys jumped from their trees and, without any
Patanjali to teach them Yoga exercises, stood—instead of on their four legs,
on two legs? And their two front legs turned into two hands? And their
monkey mind became man’s mind?
It seems to be a far greater miracle than any prophet or messiah has been
performing. It would have been far better for Jesus to turn a monkey into a
man, because that would have proved poor Charles Darwin’s theory of

evolution. But he could not even turn man into man—what to say about
turning a monkey into a man!
In English you have only one word for man; that is a poverty of language.
In Hindi we have two words for man: one is admi —that is from Adam—
and another is insan . Both mean man. Admi is the lowest state of mankind;
insan is the highest state of mankind.
One of the great poets, Mirza Ghalib, has a statement in which he says, “In
this world the most difficult thing is the transformation of an admi into an
insan . It is one of the most difficult things to make man really a man. He is
subhuman.”
So I say, still I am speaking for the one percent. And that one percent are
not people having a special talent, a special quality, no—they just have an
open heart, an open being, open from all directions, unobsessed with
anything. They will be pure ordinariness—not in any way tense, pushed,
pulled in any direction, as if there was a magnet. They will be relaxed, with
no tensions.
Yes, if the whole of humanity one day turns into a religious commune,
many things will disappear from the world which are not needed.
Ninety percent of scientific discoveries are used only in war; they are not
needed. Ninety percent of paintings are just absurd; they are not needed.
Ninety percent of problems that you continuously have to face are
absolutely unwanted, unbased. They will disappear.
And whatever ten percent is left, the whole of humanity, radiant in its
innocence and simplicity, will be able to cope with.
There will be no problems.
With that much innocence on the earth, and that much fragrance on the
earth, and that much light on the earth, it is inconceivable that any problem
could exist.

But many professions will disappear. What will the psychoanalyst do? What
will the psychologist do? What will the therapist do? What will the priest
do? Hence all these people are going to prevent the coming of the new man
in every possible way, because his coming is their departure.
Who will bother about nuclear scientists? They will be simply cured from
their obsession. Nuclear science?—you must be nuts! Man is starving, and
you are piling up atom bombs and hydrogen bombs and neutron bombs—
and man is starving. What kind of intelligence is at work? People are dying
for small, little things: no shelter, no clothes, no food—and you are trying to
reach the moon! For what? At what a cost!
Nobody asks, “Please at least let us know what the point is. Even if you
reach there, then what you are going to do?” What did those people really
do when they reached the moon? They must have looked absolutely foolish
standing there—and they had risked their lives. They went through all kinds
of strange training—in isolation tanks, in isolation rooms, in airless rooms,
in gravitation-less rooms, for years. And then the whole journey, which was
full of hazards—any moment anything could have gone wrong. And when
you arrived what did you do there? What has been the attainment?
Now they are trying for Mars and other planets. Something seems to be
crazy, buzzing in the politicians’ mind, in the scientists’ mind. Something
seems to be basically wrong. And I say to you, it is the unobsessed
religiousness that is missing. When a man is simple, innocent, ordinary,
with no pretensions, no hypocrisy, his eyes are clear, he can see through and
through: problems simply drop.
There is no need for problems to be. We create problems with one hand and
we try to solve the problems with the other hand—and both are our hands!
And where is this nonsense going to stop? Because with one hand we will
go on creating problems, and with the other hand we will go on solving the
problems. And it is our energy.
The religious man simply understands that these are both his hands; they
have to learn to be together, they have to learn to function together in
harmony.

If all the scientists of the world can have a little understanding of
religiousness, they can at least refuse to create for war.
And if politicians are so interested, they can have wrestling matches.
Everybody will enjoy it and there will be no harm. Why kill people?—
people who have no interest in anything for which they will be killed. Why
kill children? Why kill women? Why kill old people? They have no desire,
no ideology; they simply want to live and be left alone to live. But the
politicians won’t let them.
Now, is it not a simpler thing that the president of America goes into a
wrestling match with the president of Russia? Then whosoever wins, good.
And drop all this nonsense—just a little sportsmanship will do; no politics
is needed, no army is needed. If your generals are so interested in fighting,
then let generals have boxing matches—or Indian-style wrestling, which is
far better, far simpler, more human: you don’t hit people’s faces and their
noses and their eyes and their lips and you don’t disfigure them. And you
don’t break people’s bones; there is no need. It is more articulate, more
sophisticated. Just let the politicians—rather than have the Olympics for
ordinary people, have Olympics for politicians, generals, and each year you
can decide who is the winner. It is simple.
What I am saying is that to me it looks so simple that the world can be one.
And there is the solution: the whole world, one. Poverty cannot exist. All
the efforts going into war can move into production. All the sciences
working to kill each other can work together—they are both our hands. And
I don’t see that there is any problem that cannot be solved; we only need a
simple vision.
The religious man’s vision is simple, uncomplicated, clear.
Unclouded is his being.
He is just a mirror. You can see your face in the mirror. You can see how
you are creating your troubles, how you are creating your misery, your
suffering, and then searching for solutions. Once you can see how you
create the suffering, you stop creating it. There is no need for any solution,
no question needs any answer, you just have to be simple to see that the

question is meaningless, and the question drops. And in the dropping of the
question, without finding any answer, you have found it.
Let me repeat: except for the religious man, the meditative human being,
every direction in life is in some way obsessional. The religious man is not
moving in any direction, he is simply sitting in himself, just being himself,
not going anywhere. He has no goal, no target.
He simply is, and in his is-ness there is no possibility of any obsession. He
is the only really healthy and whole person. Everybody else is sick—in
different ways, but sick all the same.
And I call the whole man the holy man.
Yes, once in a while these people have existed, but one person in centuries
is not much help. It is just dropping a teaspoonful of sugar in the ocean to
make it sweet. Obviously you simply lose the one teaspoonful of sugar
which might have been used in a cup of tea. Make a cup of tea, that is
understandable, but don’t try to make the ocean sweet. The ocean is too big.
For the ocean you will need oceanic methods.
My basic effort is to create communes—rather than the religious man,
meditative communes.
Religious men have existed but they have not been of much help. Yes, to
themselves—they arrived home—but the whole of humanity is still
wandering in darkness.
I want meditative communes all over the world. Slowly, slowly in every
city, create a meditative commune. Many meditators together may perhaps
be able to transform the face of the earth and to create a new world, which
is urgently needed.
If we miss twenty years more then there is no hope, because the other side
is coming to a climax. The mad side of man—the politician, the priest—is
coming to a climax where the only conclusion is war.

And this war means total annihilation of all life from the earth, which will
be the most idiotic thing to do.
Chapter 14
Positive Thinking: Philosophy for Phonies
I am a firm believer in the philosophy of positive thinking, and it was a
great shock to hear you speak against Mother Teresa and her philosophy of
positive thinking.
I am pleased that at least someone was listening, someone was awake,
someone was not asleep. This is what positive philosophy is: you are
shocked and I am happy!
But I am not a believer in anything at all. Belief as such is against my way
of looking at things. Belief is a blind man’s groping in the dark. I do not
believe in anything, I do not disbelieve in anything—because both are
belief systems. Either I know or I don’t know. I am absolutely clear about it
You are saying that you are a “firm believer.” What does it mean? A firm
believer—why have you used the word firm ? There must be some infirmity
hiding behind it. Is not just being a believer enough? You know it is not;
hence you have to add something more, make it more solid, more strong.
But whatever you do, a belief is a belief, and can never become knowing.
Your firm believing simply proves that your doubting is very firm. A firm
doubter needs a firm believing. An ordinary doubter simply believes.
Belief is to cover something. If the doubt is too big then you have to stretch
the belief into a firm belief. You have to repress your doubt very strongly,
because you know that if it is not repressed strongly it will throw off the
cover of belief and you will be naked before your own eyes—hence the
shock. The shock is not irrelevant.
If I criticize Mother Teresa, why should you be shocked? Either you see that
what I am saying is right and there is no question of shock, or you see that
what I am saying is wrong; then too there is no question of shock. From
where comes the shock?

Shock needs two things: one part of you—the deeper part of you, the
repressed part of you—sees the truth of what I am saying, and the repressor
part of you does not want to see it. This conflict creates the shock.
You may be a firm believer in the philosophy of positive thinking, but I
don’t think you understand what the philosophy of positive thinking means.
First, the philosophy of positive thinking means being untruthful, it means
being dishonest. It means seeing a certain thing and yet denying what you
have seen; it means deceiving yourself and others. Positive thinking is the
only bullshit philosophy that America has contributed to human thought—
nothing else. Dale Carnegie, Napoleon Hill, and the Christian priest,
Vincent Peale—all these people have filled the whole American mind with
this absolutely absurd idea of a positive philosophy. And it appeals
particularly to mediocre minds.
Dale Carnegie’s book, How to Win Friends and Influence People , has been
sold in numbers just next to the Christian Bible. No other book has been
able to reach that popularity. The Christian Bible should not be a competitor
in fact, because it is more or less given free, forced on people. But Dale
Carnegie’s book people have been purchasing; it has not been given to you
free. And it has created a certain kind of ideology which has given birth to
many books of a similar kind. But to me it is nauseating.
The very idea that you want to influence people is the idea of a salesman,
and that’s what Dale Carnegie was—salesman turned philosopher. It has
happened many times. Just recently Werner Erhard, the founder of EST…
He was a salesman of encyclopedias, dictionaries, but in trying to sell
encyclopedias and dictionaries he became aware of salesmanship. Then
why bother about encyclopedias? Why not sell ideas directly?—which are a
more invisible commodity.
People can’t see it and yet they go on purchasing it. And once you have
paid two hundred and fifty dollars for a certain idea which you can’t see,
you have to pretend that you have got it; otherwise people will think you
are a fool. Two hundred and fifty dollars, and you have not “got it”…? It is
very simple.

In the East there is an old story…
A king caught his prime minister fooling around with his wife. Naturally he
was mad. In those days, this was a common punishment: he cut off the nose
of the prime minister. And the nose was cut off only when somebody was
caught fooling around with somebody else’s wife, so that became a
signboard. Wherever you went, your missing nose went ahead of you as a
declaration.
But the man was a politician, he was a prime minister. He simply escaped
from his kingdom to another kingdom and entered the other kingdom as a
saint. Now, nobody can doubt a saint. The nose was certainly missing, but
to doubt a saint is to commit a sin. But some curious people asked him,
“What happened to your nose?”
And the saint smiled; he said, “That’s a secret. It is a certain technique to
attain to the ultimate truth. But you have to lose your nose: the nose
represents the ego.” He is on the right lines: he is creating a philosophy—
people’s egos are written on their noses. The crowd thought that what he
was saying was significant. The nose represents the ego, and the ego is the
only barrier between God and man. There must be some technique that if
you remove the nose, the ego is removed and you meet the ultimate truth,
you realize it.
One idiot immediately was ready. The politician-turned-saint called him in
the night, alone, because it was an absolutely private matter. Before he cut
off the nose of the man he said, “When I cut off your nose, keep your eyes
closed. When the nose is removed I will say, ‘Open your eyes,’ and you will
see God standing before you.” The nose was cut off, and the saint said,
“Now you can open your eyes: God is standing before you.”
The man opened his eyes—there was nobody. He said, “But I don’t see
anybody.”
The saint said, “Now it is your problem. If you don’t see God, people will
think you are an idiot. Do you think I see him? I don’t see him either, but
now try positive thinking. What is the gain in being proved an idiot? Say
that you have got it.”

Werner Erhard may think that he has created the philosophy of EST. That is
not so. It was created thousands of years before by this politician who cut
off the nose of that idiot. That was the first EST graduate.
The idiot thought it over and he said, “That seems to be the right thing; yes,
I see it.”
The saint said, “You have also become a saint. From tomorrow start
spreading the philosophy by word of mouth. It was just as Werner Erhard
has been doing: no need to advertise in the newspapers and the magazines;
no need—just by word of mouth. It is more impressive, more alive: there is
an eyewitness. An advertisement in a newspaper may be just not true, but
the man with the nose missing, smiling, radiant with the realization of the
ultimate truth…
The next day people saw there were now two saints. And the number
started increasing by the same strategy. First your nose is cut off, then the
alternative: either you prove yourself an idiot, or you become a saint. Now
who is going to choose to be an idiot? Even an idiot cannot be that idiotic—
when he can become a saint so easily. And now there is nothing left, he has
to become a saint. It seems to be perfectly right—people are respectful, and
the crowd around the saints is increasing, and the saints are increasing…
Even the king of that kingdom became interested; he asked his prime
minister. The prime minister said, “Wait a little, because I know this man—
he was the prime minister of the neighboring kingdom. I don’t think that he
has attained ultimate truth, he has simply lost his nose.” Politicians easily
understand the language of politicians. He said, “Wait. Let me inquire of the
other king, and investigate the whole thing before you lose your nose and
realize God. Give me just a little time.”
He inquired of the other king. He said, “That man is really a nasty man. It is
my fault because I cut off his nose. I should have cut off his head. I never
thought that he would do such a thing as cutting the noses off thousands of
people. Every night hundreds of people are turned into awakened souls,
enlightened people, God-realized.”

He got the whole information and then he said to his king, “This is the
information I have got. Now I will invite the great saint to the palace and
give him a good beating.”
The saint was invited and of course he was very happy; and all the other
saints also were very happy that now even the king was becoming
interested in the positive philosophy. That’s what he was saying: “This is
simply positive philosophy. Now, bothering about the missing nose is a
negative approach. It is gone; what is the point of all this crying over spilled
milk? Why not make something positive out of it? And I am giving you the
ultimate truth, just for the price of a nose.
They were all happy. They all went and waited outside the palace. The great
sage entered—by now he had become a great sage. The prime minister
closed the doors. He had two wrestlers, strong men, there, and they started
beating the man. The sage said, “What are you doing?”
The prime minister said, “Now tell the truth, otherwise the beating will
continue. We will not kill you, but we will not allow you to live either. We
will keep you hanging between death and life. It is better that you say it
quickly.”
Seeing the situation he said, “Okay, the truth is that my king has cut off my
nose because I was fooling around with his wife. Now, what do you
suggest? What should I have done? In this situation, with a nose missing,
wherever I went I would have been condemned, boycotted. So I found this
positive philosophy. In the same position, wouldn’t you have done the
same?”
The prime minister said, “Of course I would have done the same—but now
it is time that you move from this kingdom, because even my king is
becoming interested, and I don’t want his nose to be removed by you, and
him to become a sage. Move from this country to another. The world is
large; there are fools everywhere, and you will find them everywhere. Right
now you already have a great following.”
When Werner Erhard or people like him found that they could sell
encyclopedias, worthless encyclopedias which nobody is going to read, and

nobody is going to look into… People keep encyclopedias simply for show,
in their study or in their sitting room. They look beautiful. They are not to
be read, they are to be looked at. If you can sell encyclopedias—and people
are so foolish that they will purchase useless books, highly-praised but
meaningless books, at a high cost—why not sell ideas? Once you know the
simple technique of salesmanship you can sell anything.
Positive thinking is just deceiving people. If influencing people and
winning friends becomes your ideology, you will have to do two things.
One is you will have to act, behave the way people like you to act and
behave. That’s the simple way to influence them, there is no other way.
The whole philosophy can be condensed into a simple sentence: if you want
people to be influenced by you, just behave the way they think is the right
way to behave. You prove to be their ideal, which they also want to be but
have not been able to be yet. Of course, you cannot become anybody else’s
ideal, but you can pretend. You will become a hypocrite.
And if you are going to influence many people, then of course you will
have to have many personalities, many masks, because each person is
influenced by a different mask.
If you want to influence a Hindu, you have to have a different kind of
personality than when you are trying to influence a Christian. To Christians,
Jesus crucified on the cross is the symbol of the greatest sacrifice anybody
can make to redeem humanity.
To the Hindus, crucifixion simply means this man must have committed a
great sin in the past. Their philosophy is of karma and its consequence. You
cannot be just crucified without any karma on your part. You must have
acted in evil ways, and this is the outcome of that. The crucifixion of Jesus
does not prove to the Hindu or the Jaina or the Buddhist that he is a
messiah.
But to the Christian, Mahavira, Buddha, Krishna, Lao Tzu—nobody seems
to be comparable to Jesus. In fact to a Christian mind they all look very
selfish: they are just working for their own redemption while Jesus is
working for the redemption of the whole of humanity. A man who is

interested in his own ultimate realization is obviously the most selfish man
in the world. What selfishness is possible which can go beyond this
selfishness?
If he renounces the world, that is selfish because he simply wants his soul to
be freed from the wheel of life and death. He wants to meet the universal
spirit of God, or he wants to enter nirvana and disappear into the cosmos
where there is no suffering, where there is only bliss, eternal bliss. And this
man does not bother about anybody else. You call him a saint?—an
incarnation of God?—a tirthankara ? No, not to the Christian; that is not
appealing.
If you want to influence many people you will have to have many
personalities, many masks. You will have to continuously pretend that
which you are not, and you will have to hide that which you are. Now this
is what makes a man phony. Dale Carnegie’s whole philosophy is for
phonies.
In fact, the word phony is also a contribution of America. Strangely, it
means exactly what personality means. In Greek drama the actors used
masks and they spoke through the mask. Sona means sound, and sound
coming from a mask is called persona in Greek—it is not the real man, but
the mask. You don’t know who is behind it; all that you hear is the sound,
and you see a mask. The mask is a mask, it cannot speak. And the one who
can speak you don’t see; he is hiding. From persona comes the English
word personality . And phony is exactly the same.
Since telephones came into existence, you can hear people’s voices through
the telephone, and you don’t see the person. And of course the voice also is
not exactly the same; coming through wires or by wireless much is
changed. It is phony; phony comes from phone . Strangely, persona and
phony mean exactly the same. You don’t see who is speaking, you only hear
the voice. That too has gone through a change, through the mechanism; it is
not exactly the same voice.
Dale Carnegie’s philosophy creates phonies, but the real purpose is to
influence people. Why? To win friends, but why? What is the need? Two
things have to be understood. First, influencing people is only a means to

win friends. The word win has to be underlined. It has the whole of politics
in it. The more people are under your influence, the more powerful you are.
Your power depends on how many people are supportive of you, how many
people you have influenced so much that they will be ready to do anything
for you.
Hence, the politician speaks in a language which is always vague, you can
interpret it the way you like, so that many people can be influenced. If he is
very clear and what he says is absolutely scientific—without any
vagueness, certain—if it has only one meaning, then perhaps he will
succeed in annoying people.
That’s what I have been doing my whole life—how to lose friends, how to
create enemies… If somebody wants to learn it, they can learn it from me.
And the reason is that I don’t want to influence anybody. The very idea is
ugly, and against humanity. To influence means to interfere, to trespass, to
drag you onto a path which is not yours, to make you do things which you
have never thought of before.
To influence a person is the most violent act in the world. I have never tried
to influence anybody. It is another thing if somebody saw some truth in
what I was saying or I was being, but it was not my effort to influence him.
If, in spite of me, he was able to see something, then the whole
responsibility is his.
Jesus says to his people, “On the judgment day I will sort out my sheep and
tell God that these are my people—they have to be saved. For others I am
not concerned.” If there is something like a judgment day—there is none,
but just for the argument’s sake—if there is something like a judgment day,
and if I am to do the sorting out, I will not be able to find a single sheep,
because I have never influenced anybody. And when you influence
somebody, certainly you become the shepherd and that person becomes just
a sheep. You are reducing human beings to sheep; you are taking their
humanity away. In the name of saving them you are destroying them.
Don’t be influenced by anybody. Don’t be impressed by anybody. Look,
see, be aware—and choose. But remember, the responsibility is yours. You
cannot say, “Lord, I followed you—now save me.” Never follow anybody,

because that’s how you go astray from yourself Dale Carnegie started this
whole school of positive philosophy, positive thinking: don’t see the
negative part, don’t see the darker side. But by your not seeing it, do you
think it disappears? You are just befooling yourself. You cannot change
reality. The night will still be there; you can think that it is daytime for
twenty-four hours, but by your thinking it, it is not going to be light twenty-
four hours a day.
The negative is as much part of life as the positive. They balance each
other.
After Dale Carnegie, the great name in the tradition of this positive thinking
is Napoleon Hill. Think and Grow Rich is his greatest contribution to the
world—a beautifully written book, but all crap. Think and grow rich: you
don’t have to do anything, you only have to think in absolutely positive
terms and riches will start flowing towards you. If they don’t come, that
simply means that you have not been thinking absolutely positively.
So these are beautiful games in which you cannot defeat the man who is
proposing the game. He has the key in his hands. If you succeed by chance,
then he succeeds because his philosophy—think and grow rich—has
succeeded. You have been thinking and thinking and thinking and positively
thinking that dollars are showering on you—these are not snowflakes but
dollars showering on you—and suddenly your uncle dies and leaves you a
big inheritance. Naturally, positive thinking works!
But if you don’t succeed… And ninety-nine percent of the time you are not
going to succeed—you know perfectly well that your positive thinking is
not absolutely positive; you know that there is doubt. Once in a while you
open your eyes to see whether they are dollars or just snowflakes. You see
they are just snowflakes, and you again close your eyes and start thinking
that dollars are showering. But the doubt is there, that these really are
snowflakes. Whom are you trying to befool? All these thoughts are going
on: “This is just nonsense, I shouldn’t waste my time, I could be earning
some dollars; this way I am losing rather than gaining.”
But Napoleon Hill writes beautifully and gives examples of how people
have succeeded by positive thinking. And you can find people—this world

is big enough. For everything you can find an example. Why one?—you
can find hundreds of examples if you just look around and try to find them.
And all these people have been doing just that: they find examples, and they
place the examples in beautiful poetic prose. And of course you want to be
rich, so they exploit your ambition, your desire. They give you such a
simple method—and they don’t ask anything of you in return.
About Napoleon Hill I remember… He himself was a poor man. That
would have been enough proof to disprove his whole philosophy. He
became rich by selling the book, Think and Grow Rich . But it was not
positive thinking that was making him rich—it was fools around the world
who were purchasing the book, it was his work, his labor, his effort. But in
the very beginning days, when his book came out, he used to stand in
bookstores to persuade people to purchase the book.
And it happened that Henry Ford came in his latest model car and went into
the bookshop to find something light to read. And Napoleon Hill did not
want to miss this chance. He went forward with his book and he said, “A
great book has just been published—you will be happy with it. And it is not
only a book, it is a sure method of success.”
Henry Ford looked at the man and said, “Are you the writer of the book?”
Napoleon Hill said proudly, “Yes, I am the writer of the book.” And he can
be proud: that book he has written is a piece of art. And to create a piece of
art out of crap is real mastery.
Henry Ford, without touching the book, just asked one question, “Have you
come in your own car or on the bus?”
Napoleon Hill could not understand what he meant. He said, “Of course, I
came on the bus.”
Henry Ford said, “Look outside. That is my private car, and I am Henry
Ford. You are befooling others; you don’t have even a private car and you
write a book called Think and Grow Rich ! And I have grown rich without
thinking, so I don’t want to bother with it. You think and grow rich!—and

when you grow rich then come to me. That will be the proof. The book is
not the proof.”
And it is said that Napoleon Hill never could gather up the courage to meet
this old man, Henry Ford, again, even though he became a little richer. But
compared to Henry Ford he was always a poor man and was bound to
remain a poor man, always. But Henry Ford’s logic was clear.
Out of these people, one Christian priest, Norman Vincent Peale, has
created a positive philosophy. And he has tried to convert the whole
Christian attitude, as if it is a philosophy of positive thinking. And of course
he could have quoted all the religions of the world, but he wants to spread
Christianity, so he doesn’t take account of any other religions.
And in Jesus you can find… All the religions have been doing the same
harm that Jesus did: “Blessed are the poor for theirs is the kingdom of
God”—now Mother Teresa is not saying anything different. Norman
Vincent Peale has become a world-famous preacher. His whole standpoint
is: don’t look at anything from the negative, critical attitude. Look from the
positive, accepting, receptive attitude. And he says that if you do it, you
transform the nature of the object—which is absolutely wrong.
Just by saying, “Blessed are the poor because theirs is the kingdom of
God,” you don’t change poverty. Otherwise in two thousand years Christian
priests would have made poverty disappear. Poverty goes on growing, the
blessed people go on growing.
In fact, there will be so many blessed people that in the kingdom of God,
shared by all these blessed people, they will again be poor; they are not
going to get much share in it. All these shareholders in the kingdom of God
will make God also poor. It will be a company of poor shareholders and
directors—the directors of course must be the beggars who are poorer than
the poor.
Two thousand years of continuously teaching… Has it changed the nature
of poverty? No. It has done only one thing—it has killed the revolutionary
spirit in the poor. Poverty remains in its own place and goes on growing in
leaps and bounds.

But it has done one thing certainly: it has taken away the guts of the poor
man. His rebellious spirit has been poisoned. And on one thing only I agree
with Karl Marx—that religion is nothing but opium for the poor people. I
have to agree with him because that’s what all the religions in the world
have done. They have given opium, a drug, so you can have beautiful
dreams.
In India it is a common routine… In Indian villages poverty is such that if
only the man goes to work, it is not enough; the wife also has to go. It is
against the Indian idea which is that women should not go to work; their
place is the home, and they have enough work there. But even if it goes
against the Indian culture, the Indian civilization, poverty is so great that
just the man earning cannot feed the whole family—the woman has to go.
And the woman may be carrying a small child, because Indian women are
constantly either pregnant or getting ready to be pregnant again; meanwhile
they raise the other child. They have to carry the child to the place where
they are working, maybe on the road, making the road, or in the field or in
the garden, or in construction, anywhere. But what to do with the child?
They will be continuously at work and the child will be lying down by the
side of the road.
So the routine method is that they give a little opium to the child. All over
India that is done, even though opium is now illegal; but nothing can be
done about it. And everybody understands that that is the only way. The
child remains hungry but happy. Just a little opium and for six to eight
hours he is floating in the lotus paradise. He will not cry, he will not weep;
he will not disturb the mother.
Religions have done the same to the whole of humanity: be hungry, be
uneducated, be sick, suffer every kind of misery possible—but take it
positively. No. I do not believe in any philosophy of positive thinking; nor
do I believe in the opposite, in the philosophy of negative thinking—
because both are there. The positive and the negative make one whole.
My philosophy is holistic—neither positivist, nor negativist, but holistic,
realistic. See the whole in its totality, whatever it is. Good and bad, day and
night, life and death, they are both there.

My approach is to see exactly what is the case. There is no need to project
any philosophy on it.
Mother Teresa says to these people in Bhopal,—“Take it positively.” Two
thousand people dead! Certainly through some mistake of some lazy Indian.
And it has been happening in many places all over India; it is not a singular
case. Bridges fall down after millions of rupees have been put into years of
construction. The first day the train passes by… And with the bridge, the
train and the passengers all go down into the river—but take it positively.
Dams continually go on flooding thousands of miles because they break.
India goes on borrowing money from all over the world, from the World
Bank and from other sources, to make new dams. And with all the
engineers and all that expertise, what happens? It does not happen
anywhere else in the world, it happens only in India! India is a very positive
country because the people who are responsible are not punished; otherwise
it would stop.
The contractor should be punished when a bridge kills thousands of people
and destroys the labor of thousands of people and makes the country
borrow more and more—which India will never be able to repay. That is
absolutely clear, because how are you going to pay it back? Slowly, slowly
you are becoming slaves again—economic slaves.
Political slavery is gone; now economic slavery is coming from the back
door. If you cannot pay money, then you will have to substitute it with
something. If you owe to America, or if you owe to Russia, then you will
have to give them bases for their military forces. You have to, because there
is no other way to pay them back. And why do these countries go on giving
to these poor countries, knowing perfectly well that they cannot get it back?
In fact they don’t want to get it back! This is a new form of slavery.
People don’t understand that forms go on changing but things remain the
same. Political slavery became costly, very costly. To those who were the
masters, it became more costly to have a slave country than not to be
bothered with slave countries. That was more economically profitable.
Leave these poor countries politically free—but what are they going to do
with their economy? They will beg from you, and then you can exploit

them economically. And in fact that is the real exploitation. Political slavery
was useful because you were powerful enough to exploit them
economically.
All such exploitation is economic—if you were politically powerful then of
course you could exploit them economically. By the end of the Second
World War it became clear that it was no longer feasible, no longer
economically useful to have political slavery in the world. But the real thing
was economic exploitation. Drop the political slavery, influence people,
make friends—and go on exploiting them economically the way you were
doing before. Now you will do even better because you are friends, you are
helping in every possible way—but for what reason are you helping?
It is because soon they will be so much in debt that while politically they
can remain free, it will make no difference—your armies, your military
bases will be inside their country; they will have to give in to you. Their
political freedom will be just paper freedom: underneath they will be slaves
again.
And in India nobody is punished for all these things which go on
happening. In India there are really miracles that happen. They have five-
year plans just like Russia used to have five-year plans. In those five-year
plans so many dams have to be made, so many roads, so many bridges, and
the country is given a great hope that within five years everything will be
changed: poverty will be gone, every village will have a school, a hospital,
and everything.
And on paper these things do happen. You can see the road has been made,
on the map. The contract has been given, the contractor has taken the
money, the engineers have been working, the laborers have been paid, the
machines have been purchased. Five years of work and the road is ready.
The road is even inaugurated by a great leader—and there is no road!
You see the picture of the leader in the newspaper, inaugurating the road.
They have made just a small piece for the inauguration, so that a small
piece of road is shown in the picture. And the leader is inaugurating it,
cutting a ribbon with the scissors, and people are all around, clapping. And

it is a miracle! If you go just one furlong ahead, there is no road—and the
road was going to be one hundred miles in length. It is non-existent.
Great miracles! But take it positively, and don’t complain against anybody,
otherwise everybody will be caught: the leader who inaugurated the road
will be caught and asked, “What road have you inaugurated? Where is it?”
The minister who gave the contract must have been bribed. The contractor
must have taken the major portion of the money that was going to make the
bridge, and everything else is fictitious. Engineers have been paid, workers
have been paid; for years the work goes on, and reports go on coming into
the files that the work is going well, and the road is coming along, and it
will be ready even before the time set for it.
It can be ready any day; the way it is going it can be ready any day. And
then the great leader comes to inaugurate it, and people are clapping
because they believe in positive philosophy. They know the road goes only
one furlong, but still they are clapping because a great leader has come, and
they have all been given money to clap, praise the leader, wave flags to
welcome him. And these pictures will be the proof. All these people have to
be punished.
And Mother Teresa says to those poor people, “Don’t complain.” Whom is
she going to save? The criminals? Yes, I use the word criminals , because I
don’t know anything worse than that. I cannot call them sinners because I
don’t believe in sin. But they are criminals. If it is the carelessness of one
person who did not lock the plant correctly, and it kills two thousand
people…
And this is a government report of two thousand people killed. Whenever
there is a government report, particularly from India, multiply it by five and
you will be almost right. If they say two thousand people have died, that
means at least ten thousand people have died. If they say one hundred
thousand people have been seriously injured, don’t believe their numbers—
at least five hundred thousand people must have been injured. Who is going
to count? The government officials reduce it as much as possible so that
there is no negativity in people, and positive philosophy goes on living.

And then they call in these people like Mother Teresa who say, “Don’t
complain.” Why?
Then what about Adolf Hitler’s gas chambers? Take it positively—and yes,
if you want to take it positively, it can be argued in a very positive way:
those millions of Jews that evaporated in the gas chambers of Adolf
Hitler… Now think positively. If they had lived they may have been poor.
They may have suffered any kind of disease, tuberculosis. cancer. And even
God had to destroy two cities, Gomorrah and Sodom, in the Old Testament
—it is not written by me. God had to destroy both the cities completely!
Why? Sodom became so famous that now we have the word sodomy
because of Sodom. People were making love to all kinds of animals.
And Gomorrah—just the sound of the name is enough to give you an idea
what else must have been happening there—all kinds of perversions. I have
always wondered why people have missed on this name Gomorrah; it is so
phonetically connected with some sexual perversion. God had to destroy
both cities completely.
God has never taken anything positively, otherwise why is there hell? If
God takes things positively then he will just hug and kiss criminals and say,
“Come on, boys! I was just waiting for you. This paradise is yours because
I take things positively. I have read the books of Norman Vincent Peale.”
But he goes on throwing people into hell. Mother Teresa seems to be very
anti-God. But all these religions are in a contradiction.
Here they go on saying one thing, and there they go on saying, “You will be
punished. Each sin will be counted, calculated. And you cannot hide
anything from God; he will read you just like an open book—there is no
way to hide—and accordingly you will be judged.” So Christians have
judgment day: if God believes in the philosophy of positive thinking, then
what is the need of a judgment day? All are to be forgiven, and whatsoever
they have done has to be looked at positively. Then what is the need of a
day of judgment? Saints and sinners will be the same, they will receive the
same welcome—but that creates trouble.
That is why nobody has raised this question: what about God and his
philosophy? If you say that God is going to forgive everybody, then

sainthood loses all charm. Then who is going to suffer all the austerities and
fasts and prayers, and renounce all the pleasures of life—knowing perfectly
well that those who are having all the pleasures here on earth will again
have the same pleasures that you will have in heaven? So you are a loser!
And perhaps because your whole life you denied yourself pleasures, you
may not be able to enjoy them, because you will be so inhibited that when
beautiful girls in the Hindu paradise appear dancing before you… The
saints are certainly bound to close their eyes, just out of habit of millions of
lives—for Hindus it is a question of millions of lives.
Gandhi used to have three monkeys just by his side on the table. They were
presented to him by a Japanese saint; in fact, four were presented, but the
fourth has been missing from all the pictures. When I went to Gandhi’s
ashram I asked his son Ramdas, “Where is the fourth monkey?”
He said, “How did you come to know about the fourth monkey?—because
when they came, all four were joined together, they were not separate, and
immediately the fourth was separated and destroyed. How did you come to
know?—because this thing happened long ago.”
I said, “I am really an explorer of strange things. Tell me about the fourth.”
“But,” he said, “it has been completely destroyed. How did you…? Who
told you?”—because except Gandhi, Ramdas, his son, and Ba, his mother,
nobody knew about it. “We opened the parcel, and we destroyed the
fourth.”
I said, “That’s okay. I was also present.”
He said, “You must be joking.”
And nowhere is it mentioned that there were four monkeys. But I know
because originally those four monkeys were Chinese. They are very
traditional, Taoist monkeys, at least three thousand years old, so I knew the
fourth was bound to be there. From Taoism they traveled to Japan, and they
had never been three. But his whole life he kept those three monkeys by his

side; they are still preserved in the Gandhi memorial museum in Delhi. But
it is a lie, because the fourth is missing.
One monkey has his hands over his eyes, closing them. “Don’t see anything
evil” is the message. The second one has his hands over his ears: “Don’t
hear anything evil.” The third monkey had his hands over his mouth—not
to throw a kiss at you, but: “Don’t say anything evil.” What was the fourth
doing so that they destroyed him? The fourth was keeping both his hands
over his sexual organ: “Remain celibate, don’t do anything evil.” Now,
Gandhi was worried that this monkey would create trouble. “Anybody
coming will ask what he is doing. And just sitting by my side… Destroy
this one; these three are okay.”
All the religions have been teaching these saints to practice it but when they
are in paradise and have freedom, it is going to be difficult for them, really
difficult. The sinners will enjoy paradise; the saints will hide just at the
sight of an approaching apsara —that is a young woman that is made
available to all in paradise—and there are thousands of beautiful apsaras .
You can call them divine call girls. I don’t know how to translate that word
because in the Christian heaven apsaras don’t exist.
What the saints will do is start shaking and feeling nervous and perspiring,
and they will immediately close their eyes because that is what they have
been doing their whole life.
I am telling you to be realistic—to see the wholeness of a thing, the positive
and negative.
Now this woman, Mother Teresa, is a bigger criminal than those people
who created the calamity of Bhopal, because she is not only trying to cover
their laziness, their mistake, their error; she is giving the idea that wherever
such a thing happens you just cover it up.
So I say that when millions of Jews are evaporated, Hitler must be doing
great, positive work: perhaps with a smaller population there will be less
poverty. And these Jews were the richest people in Germany, so let their
money and their riches be distributed. And anyway they are going to die
sooner or later, so why not sooner? What could they have done by living?

So why make so much fuss? They may have died from a very terrible
disease—AlDS, cancer, or something—and Hitler has given them the
simplest and the quickest death, a painless death. Look at it positively!
But Mother Teresa will not have the guts to say, “Look at it positively,”
because the Jews in America who go on giving respect to her will be
immediately enemies. She cannot say that.
Why not take the Russian revolution positively? Stalin killing millions of
people—has she ever said to take that positively? It is good: those millions
of people are freed from life’s miseries, sufferings, troubles. But she will
not say that. Communism cannot be taken positively—her master, pope the
Polack, has just declared that the very idea of class war is a sin. Now, is that
taking things positively? Then class war is not a sin but a virtue, if you take
it positively.
But why do such an ugly thing to the poor Indians? And your purposes are
clear. Your purpose is political: to keep the government happy. Because in
India it is a problem… Many missionaries have been deported from India,
and there is constant pressure from the Hindu population that missionaries
should be deported from India because they are exploiting poverty and
converting people to Christianity—not by argument, because as far as
argument is concerned Christianity has nothing compared to Eastern
religions. They cannot win in any argument; Christianity has no argument at
all.
India has had ten thousand years of continual argumentation and nothing
else! As far as argument is concerned, nobody can come close to the Indians
because they have done only that one thing for ten thousand years—nothing
else. They have tried to split hairs, and they have succeeded. There are
books which cannot be translated even today because scholars find that it is
impossible to find any western words equivalent to them. For example,
Indian logic is impossible to translate—Aristotle is just a pygmy. Indian
logic has gone so deep in continually splitting hairs and has created such
words because it needed them.
Words are created only when you need them. For example, here you have
snow , ice , and perhaps one more word I don’t know. But ask the Eskimo;

he has a dozen words for snow. No other language has a dozen words, but
the Eskimo has. And the reason is he knows those twelve different qualities.
He has lived for thousands of years with snow. He is acquainted with it. He
can make differentiations which nobody else can.
Now, after ten thousand years of continually arguing, India has come to
words that no other language in the world can translate. Even to understand
them is as difficult as to understand Albert Einstein’s theory of relativity,
perhaps more difficult.
So India is continually deporting missionaries; the pressure goes on
becoming bigger and bigger. The reason… Hindus are not worried about
argument. If you want to argue they are ready, the Jainas are ready, the
Buddhists are ready. About argument there is no problem; your Christian
missionaries will not have any chance of winning. But they can convert
people by giving bread, by giving medicine, by opening a hospital, by
making a school, a college, by creating institutions for the orphans, for the
widows.
All these things Indians cannot do; they have never done them, they have
never bothered about them. In fact, they have reasons, explanations,
arguments why: if somebody is an orphan, it means in his past life he has
done something wrong. Now let him suffer, don’t interfere; otherwise he
will have to be an orphan again in the next life, and you will be simply
prolonging his suffering. Let him be finished with it and the accounts be
closed, so that in the next life he comes fresh and is not an orphan. Widows
—it is their fate; if their husbands have died, it is nobody else’s business.
According to Hindus these women must have done immense wrong in their
past lives, so they are suffering.
So nobody is going to do anything about any real problem. Christian
missionaries tackle the real problems. And naturally, when they feed, give
medicines, serve the poor with their doctors, their nurses, their hospitals,
their schools, their teachers—those people become impressed: “No Hindu
ever cared, nobody bothered about us. If we were dying they just left us
dying. You care for us—certainly you are really religious.” And if they start
getting more and more involved with Christianity, it is simple. But they are

not converted the way conversion should happen. It is smuggling them
through the back door.
They don’t know about their own religions, because nobody has taught
them. But Christians are teaching them about Christianity; that is their only
knowledge. And they see these people and their service, their compassion,
their sympathy, and naturally they think this is the religion you should
belong to. And if these missionaries are doing so much, what about Jesus,
the messiah? If he says that he will redeem the world, he means it. These
people are his representatives.
But Hindus are pressuring the government that these people should be
thrown out because they are misguiding people, taking advantage of their
poverty, of their sickness, of their old age. But nobody can dare to say,
“Deport Mother Teresa,” because she is continually protecting the
government. This is a political strategy: protecting the officers, protecting
the rich, and underground doing the real work of converting people to
Christianity.
I am not against anybody being converted to Christianity. If with
understanding, with feeling a person moves towards Christianity, it is
perfectly good; nobody has the right to prevent him. But if he is in some
way bribed, seduced, then this should be prevented. Whether he was going
to become a Mohammedan or a Hindu or a Christian or a Buddhist, it does
not matter: nobody should be allowed to cunningly change a person’s life,
his vision, his thinking. He should be left alone. All missionaries—it makes
no difference to which religion they are connected—all missionaries are
against humanity. But people like Mother Teresa do their work in a very
sophisticated way, a very polished way.
You ask me: am I against positive philosophy? Yes, because I am also
against negative philosophy. I have to be against both because both choose
only half the fact, and both try to ignore the other half.
And remember: a half-truth is far more dangerous than a whole lie, because
the whole lie will be discovered by you sooner or later. How long can it
remain undiscovered by you? A lie, of course, is a lie; it is just a palace
made of playing cards—a little breeze and the whole palace disappears. But

the half-truth is dangerous. You may never discover it, you may continue to
think it is the whole truth. So the real problem is not the whole lie, the real
problem is the half-truth pretending to be the whole truth; and that is what
these people are doing.
The philosophy of positive thinking says: “Take everything positively. The
negative should not have any space in your approach, there should be no
negative part.” This is making a part, the positive part, almost the whole.
The same is true about negative people, although there are none who preach
the philosophy of negative thinking, because who is going to listen to them?
They will say, “If somebody is smiling, find out—there must be something
he is hiding behind the smile. In fact, he must want to cry or weep. Find out
—don’t be deceived by his smiling; find the negative. If he is looking very
happy, that means certainly there is something that he is trying to hide
behind his happiness.”
People are so miserable, who is going to listen to such a philosopher? They
will say, “We are already so miserable, and you are teaching us to search for
more misery! Even if a false smile is there, at least it is there. Please forgive
us, we can’t go on digging and finding the tears. We have enough tears. And
just a smile—although it may be just a mannerism, a formality, just a
civilized way of meeting somebody…”
When you meet somebody and ask, “How are you?” he says, “I am
perfectly well.” Now, if you are a negative philosopher you have to find out
what this man is hiding: “How can he be perfectly well? Have you ever
heard of anybody in the world being perfectly well? He is lying!” But
nobody will listen to a negative philosopher. You also say, “I am perfectly
well. You are perfectly well?—good.” And you depart in good spirits. What
is the point of showing one’s wounds to each other and making each other
more miserable than before?
So there is no school of negative philosophers. But there are more people
who believe in negative philosophy without knowing it than there are
people who believe in positive philosophy.

In fact, all these believers in positive philosophy are basically negative. To
hide that negativity they believe firmly in the positive philosophy.
I am not in support of either side. I am in favor of taking the whole truth,
and that’s what I would like you to do too: take the whole truth, because the
negative is as essential as the positive.
You cannot create electricity with only the positive pole; you will need the
negative pole too. Only with both the negative and the positive pole can you
create electricity. Is the negative absolutely negative? It is complementary,
so it is not against the positive.
If I had been in Bhopal I would have told them, “Find the people who are
responsible for this calamity; it is manmade.” Of course we cannot find God
when there are natural calamities. If we could then I would be in favor of
catching hold of God and punishing him, because this is not even a human
way—what to say about a divine way! But we cannot catch hold of God
because he is non-existent—so we are helpless.
But when manmade calamities are there, please don’t say such stupid things
to people as, “Take it positively. Don’t complain.” No, find out who the
criminals are and let them be punished as heavily as possible. You punish a
single man if he kills somebody, and perhaps a single man was behind the
whole explosion which has killed thousands of people, crippled thousands
of people. But he will be left completely free to do it again, and people like
him will also not feel any necessity to be more alert, to be more careful.
If India has become a country of lazy and lousy people, the reason is simple
and clear: nobody has bothered to deal with the sources from where this
laziness and lousiness arise. And everybody is lazy and lousy.
When I joined the university I was puzzled because the whole years’ course
was not enough for more than two months; in two months it could be
finished. I used to finish it in two months. My professors, senior professors,
the head of the department, the dean all told me, “This is not the way. You
simply finish in two months a course which has to be finished in ten
months. That makes us all feel guilty.”

I said, “That is your business. If you don’t want to feel guilty, finish your
course also in two months, or change the syllabus—make the syllabus in
such a way that the course is really for ten months. This is lousy, absolute
laziness, and I cannot be part of it.”
It is because of this that I used to travel so much. My students were not at a
loss at all. I would finish their course quickly and then would say, “Now
unnecessarily you will be bothering and I will be bothering… What is the
point? Once in a while, whenever I am here, I will come. If you have any
questions you can ask them, otherwise I will see you when the examinations
come round.”
And my professors, my department, my head were not courageous enough
to report me because they knew that if they reported me, then I was going to
expose the whole thing: that these people were lousy. And my students
would have been my witnesses that I had finished my course—now for
what did they want me here too?
I was moving around the country. Everybody knew because the newspapers
were publishing that I was in Kolkatta addressing the university, I was in
Benares… And they knew that I was supposed to be there in Jabalpur. My
principal once asked me for dinner, and at his home he said, “Do at least
one thing: Go wherever you want, but don’t let it be published in the
newspapers because then it becomes a problem. People start asking us, ‘If
he is in Chennai…but we don’t have any application for leave. He never
informs us when he goes or when comes back.’”
I said, “I cannot do anything about that. How can I prevent the journalists
reporting? What can I do? I don’t know who is reporting; I simply speak
and move on, and whatsoever they want to do, they do. But if you have any
problems, if anybody reports to you, you can call me. I can put that man
right, there and then.”
For nine years I managed this way. The whole university was just in a state
of shock. They could not believe that nobody raised any question against
me. I got the whole salary, and I was rarely seen. But the reason was that
my department was afraid to report me, for the simple reason that I had said
that I would expose the whole thing.

The country has become lazy. I told the vice-chancellor, “All your courses
are not enough for the whole year. What you teach in six years can be
taught very easily in two years; you are wasting four years. In those four
years you could teach so much that the degrees of no other country could be
compared to your degrees. Right now no country even accepts your
degrees.”
He said, “Perhaps you are right, but no professor will agree because they
are happy with the way things are going; they have always done it this way.
So I don’t want to take the responsibility on myself.”
Doctor Radhakrishnan, who became president of India, was basically a
professor of philosophy. First he was professor of philosophy, then he
became vice-chancellor of the Hindu university in Varanasi, and then he
managed and manipulated to become the president of India. When he
became the president of India, he declared his birthday as “teachers’ day.”
That is a very cunning strategy that is being done in India. Jawaharlal
Nehru’s birthday is “children’s day,” because once Jawaharlal was dead
people would soon forget about him. But children’s day will continue
because children are not going to disappear from the world, and on
children’s day Jawaharlal will be remembered.
So Doctor Radhakrishnan created a teachers’ day. On the first teachers’ day
in my university, I asked the vice-chancellor, who was presiding over the
meeting, “I want to inquire about a simple thing: why do you call it
teachers’ day?”
He said, “You don’t know? It is so simple. A teacher has become president
of the country.”
I said, “Who is being respected, a teacher or the president of the country? I
will call it a teachers’ day if a president drops his presidency and becomes a
teacher. Then it will be a teachers’ day, putting teaching higher than the
presidency of the country. Let him resign from the presidency and become a
teacher.

“This is my challenge to Doctor Radhakrishnan: resign from your post,
become a teacher, and we will celebrate the teachers’ day. Right now this is
absolutely absurd. Tomorrow a shoemaker becomes a president and so then
a ‘shoemakers’ day’; someday, somebody else is a cloth merchant, then
‘cloth merchants’ day’. But in all these days you are respecting the post of
the president. So simply call all these days ‘president’s day’. Why drag the
poor teacher into it?”
My vice-chancellor said, “Will you please keep it to yourself! Soon the
media will be here, and if they hear your challenge or anything, then I at
least am in difficulty because it is because of Radhakrishnan that I have
been appointed vice-chancellor here in this university. I am his student, and
what you are saying is perfectly right, but—forgive me—don’t say it in
front of people.”
I said, “Everybody goes on: ‘Be truthful, be honest, be authentic,’ and
whenever I try to be truthful, honest and authentic, immediately I am
stopped.”
I am certainly against people like Mother Teresa, because I count them as
criminals, not as saints. And I will not take them positively because they are
doing certain harm—and so subtle a harm to humanity that it cannot be
forgiven.
It may have shocked you. Think about your shock and look at both the sides
of the shock, the negative and the positive, so that you can understand why
the whole phenomenon happened to you.
And this is going to be my approach to everything.
Look holistically. Be a realist and you will be surprised, amazed. When you
look at both sides they fit together, they complement each other. They are
just like the Chinese symbol of yin and yang.
Have you seen the Chinese symbol of yin and yang?—two fish in a circle,
one fish in one half-circle, the other fish in the other half-circle; but both
fish fitting together, making it a whole. Yin means the feminine; yang
means the masculine.

This is applicable to all polarities, positive and negative; they are just like
two fish moving in such a way, so closely, that they make a circle.
Then you look at existence with the eyes of a religious man. Then there is
no saint, no sinner; they are all complementary to each other. They both are
needed in some way.
Yes, better ways can be found so that they can complement each other more
lucidly, more gracefully, more beautifully.
Chapter 15
The Magic of Self Respect
What is the place of surrender in your vision of a new religious
consciousness?
I do not teach the ego, hence I cannot teach surrender, because surrender is
nothing but the subtlest form of the ego.
Surrender is not against the ego, it is in fact an act of the ego. Who
surrenders? And by surrendering, who becomes humble? Who becomes
meek? It is the ego standing upside down. It makes no difference whether
the ego is standing on its legs or on its head. In fact it is more dangerous
when it is on its head because then you will not be able to recognize it.
Jesus says, “Blessed are the meek,” but what is meekness? “Blessed are the
humble,” but what is humbleness? Can a man who has no ego be humble?
How can he be humble? Who will be humble? A man who has no ego has
no way to be meek or to be humble. He cannot be an egoist on the one
hand; he cannot be a humble person on the other hand.
To teach surrender is to give you a strategy to hide your ego, to sublimate
your ego. Yes, that’s the right word, sublimation . A Freudian word, very
significant. You can sublimate anything, so much so that recognition
becomes impossible. You may even start thinking that this is the very
opposite of the original thing. Meeting a humble man you will feel how

egoless he is—he also feels how egoless he is. The ego has come from the
back door and now it is no longer condemned, but appreciated.
And why is a meek person, a humble person appreciated? That too is a
strange story. He is appreciated because he fulfills everybody else’s ego.
Just see the whole game of it. Why do you appreciate a humble person?—
because being humble to you, he buttresses your ego. And because your ego
is buttressed, you in response buttress his humbleness.
Now a vicious circle is created. He will become more and more humble
because everybody loves his humbleness. He gains respectability, and
everybody enjoys his humbleness because everybody is being satisfied by
his humbleness—it is a deep satisfaction for the ego.
Yes, blessed are the humble and the meek because without them how are
the egoists going to be contented? And when you say, “They shall inherit
the kingdom of God,” then naturally one is ready to do anything.
I want you to understand it clearly: ego and surrender are two sides of the
same coin. I don’t teach the ego, so how can there be any place for
surrender in my vision? I don’t teach you to be meek, I don’t teach you to
be humble.
I teach you to be authentic, integrated individuals with immense self-
respect. The word self-respect may create doubts in your mind because self-
respect seems to again mean the ego. It is not so. You have to understand
both words, self and respect ; both are significant.
Self is that which you are born with. Ego is that which you accumulate; ego
is your achievement.
Self is a gift of existence to you. You have not done anything to earn it, you
have not achieved it; hence nobody can take it away from you. That is
impossible because it is your nature, your very being.
Ego is all that you go on accumulating through education, manners,
civilization, culture, schools, colleges, universities… You go accumulating
it. It is your effort, you have made it, and you have made it so big that you

have completely forgotten your real self To know the real self is enough:
the ego falls flat on the ground without any effort to surrender it. Unless the
ego falls on its own, without your effort, it is not going to leave you. If you
make effort to drop it, and that is what surrender is… All the religions teach
surrender, hence I say they don’t understand even the very basics of
psychology. Ego has not to be surrendered, it has to be seen. It has to be
understood through and through.
That is the meaning of respect . It is one of the most beautiful words in the
English language. It does not mean what it has come to mean: honor. No—
respect simply means re-spect , to look again. That’s the literal meaning of
the word; there is no place for honor. Just look again, look back, look deep.
Spect means to see, look; re means again. Once, you had known it.
Before you entered and became part of a society, a culture, a civilization,
you knew it. It is not a coincidence that people go on thinking that their
childhood was the most beautiful part of their life. It is a long-forgotten
memory, because there have been days in your life, the earliest days, which
you cannot remember exactly; only a vague feeling, a kind of fragrance, a
kind of shadow is there.
If you re-spect , if you look again and go deep into your existence, you are
going to find the place from where you started losing yourself and gaining
the ego.
That moment is a moment of illumination because once you have seen what
the ego is, the game is finished.
So I cannot say to you, drop the ego, because that means I accept the reality
of your ego. And how are you going to drop it—you are it. Right now, you
are it. The self you have lost far away back in the past. There is a great
distance between you and your self. Right now you are existing at the
periphery of your self. That periphery is pretending to be your self. That
pretender is the ego. Now telling the ego, “Drop! Surrender! Be humble!” is
simply idiotic.
I used to go at least three or four times a year to Mount Abu in India. Mount
Abu has one of the most artistic temples in the whole world. They are Jaina

temples, Delwara temples. The carving in the marble is incomparable.
When for the first time I went to Mount Abu, the priest of the Delwara
temple came to invite me. I went with him to his office. The Delwara
temple is a very precious temple, very ancient, and yet as fresh as if it had
just been finished, just created.
Marble has that quality of freshness: for thousands of years it remains
young, fresh, innocent. And Delwara temples are just marble and marble.
The Taj Mahal is nothing compared to Delwara temples. The Taj Mahal is a
simple structure, but Delwara temples are the artwork of thousands of
artists, perhaps over hundreds of years. Each inch is carved.
In his office—and he had a beautiful office, because governors, governor—
generals, and even George the fifth, the king, had come to visit the Delwara
temples. If you miss the Delwara temples you miss much of India, the India
that was. Delwara has something of the past beauty and glory. So he had a
beautiful office because he was continually receiving guests from foreign
countries, prime ministers, presidents, kings, queens.
I went into his office. And in his office there was carved on the marble wall,
a beautiful sentence, a statement from Mahavira. The statement is such that
nobody could object to it, and nobody had ever objected. The priest was
almost seventy years old and the priest’s forefathers, and their forefathers
from generation to generation, had served the temple. The statement was
simple. The statement was: “The humble man is respected universally. Be
humble.”
But the reason you are given for being humble is that you will be honored
universally. The whole statement of Mahavira is: “The king is honored in
his own country, but the humble man is honored universally”—there are no
boundaries to his honor. A king’s honor has boundaries—within his own
kingdom. Beyond those boundaries he is nobody. But the humble person
has no boundaries to his kingdom, the whole universe is his kingdom; he is
universally honored.
But to whom is this idea going to appeal? The ego will immediately catch
hold of it. That’s what the ego wants: to be honored universally! And if
humbleness is the way, then okay, the ego is ready to be humble. If

surrender is the way, the ego is ready to surrender People used to come to
me and they would say, “We want to surrender to you.”
I would say, “But what will you surrender to me?”
And they would say, “It is such a simple thing—we want to surrender our
ego.”
I would say, “That is okay, but what will I do with all these egos? You are
tortured by one, I will be tortured by the thousands of egos you surrender to
me. It is as if somebody comes and says, “I surrender my cancer to you.”
Great surrender! You are obliging me? And how can you surrender your
ego? Have you ever met it? Have you even seen it? Have you seen its subtle
ways of movement, its workings? Do you know it? You don’t know it.”
I asked the priest, “Remove this sentence from this temple. Mahavira has no
understanding about ego because what he is saying is an appeal to the ego.
Yes, he will get people ready to surrender, ready to be humble, ready to be
meek; but behind their meekness will be a sophisticated ego, far more
dangerous than the ordinary raw quality of the uncultured ego, which can be
easily traced to where it is.”
The sophisticated ego becomes more and more difficult to find. It becomes
so subtle that it goes on slipping from your hands. And it becomes so clever
at changing its faces. If it can change its face to meekness, humbleness,
surrender, then what else do you want it to do? It is doing almost the
impossible: it is pretending to be its opposite.
And the religions have been exploiting the idea; they say, “Blessed are the
meek for they shall inherit the earth.” Now, to inherit the earth… What
more can your ego demand? And what more can your ego find? And this
man is giving you a simple proposal: “Be meek, and the earth is yours.” It is
a bargain! And you are not going to be the loser. What you are losing?—
you are simply gaining. Karl Marx, in his most famous book, The
Communist Manifesto , has a beautiful sentence at the end. With that
sentence he concludes the communist manifesto. The sentence has some
great insight in it. It says, “Workers of the world, unite. You have nothing to
lose but your chains.”

He is calling on the workers, the proletariat, the poor people of the world,
the laborers, to unite, to fight for their rights, to rebel against the whole
system of exploitation, because what have you got to lose except your
chains? You don’t have anything else except your chains, so there is no
need to be afraid of fighting. The other party has to lose. If you win, you
gain. If you are defeated, you lose nothing, because you don’t have
anything in the first place.
He was giving a great incentive. He thought that the revolution would
happen first in America. He had never even dreamed that it would happen
first in Russia. He must have been puzzled in his grave, almost shocked.
He had never thought that the revolution would happen in Russia, in China,
in Poland, in Yugoslavia, in Czechoslovakia—those names had never
occurred to him, could not have occurred to him. He thought the revolution
would happen where capitalism had come to its peak, where the class
division was perfect, where you could see the rich and the poor.
Marx forgot just one thing, and that changed the whole course of
communism. He forgot that the American poor have something to lose. He
forgot his own declaration. When he predicted that the revolution would
happen first in America, he forgot completely that the American poor have
something to lose. The Russian poor had nothing to lose, the Chinese poor
had nothing to lose. The wonder of wonders is India! It has the poorest
people in the world; you cannot conceive what they can lose, but no
revolution has happened there.
In India it could not happen because the religious tradition is so deep that it
has told the poor people, “You are the blessed people. Your poverty is just a
test of your faith. All these small troubles are nothing before the blessings
of paradise. This life is just a life consisting only of four days.”
That’s a proverb in India, that life is nothing but four days. Two days pass
in desiring, the remaining two days pass in waiting. It is so small that half
of it—while you are young, you have ambitions and desires to be someone,
to be somewhere, to get your name carved for the coming generations—
those two days pass in desiring. And the other half, when you start getting

older, those two days pass in waiting for some miracle to happen and your
desires to be fulfilled. This is all your life is: a soap bubble.
For this small life are you going to lose the blessings, eternal blessings of
heaven? Be patient. Have faith. Your poverty is a God-given opportunity. If
you can pass this fire test—which is not a long journey, just four steps—the
doors of paradise open, and you will be received with bands and singing
and dancing.
In India revolution seems to be impossible. It should have happened first in
India, because what Karl Marx says has a truth in it. When you don’t have
anything to lose, what is the fear of fighting, of rebelling, of risking?
I have told this ancient story many times, but each time that I have told it I
have loved it more…
A master is going from one place to another with his chief disciple. They
have to cross a jungle. The disciple is puzzled because the master says,
“Move a little quicker, we have to pass through the jungle fast. The sun is
coming down and soon it will be night.”
The disciple has been with the master for many years and the master has
never been afraid of the night. He has never been in such a hurry. Moreover,
he is keeping a bag hanging from his shoulder. He is clutching that bag, and
once in a while he puts his hand inside and feels something there, and then
looks at ease.
The disciple was very puzzled: what is the matter? What is he carrying in
the bag that he is so afraid? But the path was long, and although they were
almost running, in the middle of the jungle the night came. The disciple saw
for the first time the master trembling, almost in a nervous breakdown.
He said, “What is the matter? We have been in jungles many times, and we
have stayed in jungles. We are sannyasins—we have renounced the world.
Even if a wild animal comes and eats us, there is nothing much to be
worried about. One day one has to die. There will always be some excuse—
about some disease, wild animals, some enemy. And it does not matter

when one dies; what matters is how one dies. And you know and I know
how to die. So why be afraid?”
But the master is no longer in a state to listen to him. They stop at a well,
and the master says, “I am tired and thirsty so let’s pull up some water so
we can wash our faces and drink some water and do our prayer: the prayer
that is done at sunset.” In his nervousness he even forgot that the sun had
already set.
He gave the bag to the disciple and told him, “Be careful with the bag.”
The master went to pull water from the well. This was the chance the
disciple had been waiting for, to look into the bag to find out what was the
matter. He opened the bag and found what the matter was—the master was
carrying a brick of solid gold. Now he knew what the fear was. It was not
death, it was not wild animals, it was not the night—it was robbers, thieves.
This gold brick was the cause.
So he took out the brick, threw it away in the jungle, found a stone of the
same size, weighing almost the same, and put it in the bag. And when the
master was back, the first thing he did was take away the bag. It was as
heavy as before—the brick was inside.
They started walking again, faster than before. The disciple said, “Now
there is no need to go so fast.”
The master said, “What do you mean?”
He said, “I have thrown away the cause of fear, long ago.”
The master said, “The cause of fear? How can you throw away the cause of
fear?”
He said, “You can look in your bag.”
The master took out the stone. He said, “My God! You have thrown away
my gold brick. Now there is no need to rush, we can stay here the whole
night.” And they stayed in the jungle.

In the morning the master thanked the disciple: “You did right. Because I
had something to lose, there was fear. When there was nothing to lose, there
was no point in the fear. I slept such a beautiful sleep. With that brick I
could not have slept the whole night. At least a dozen times I would have
touched the brick and felt whether it was still there or gone. But you did the
right thing.”
When you have something to lose, there is fear. That’s why in America the
revolution has not happened, and is not going to happen—because America
has really rich people and poor people, but the poor are almost in the same
position as the middle classes in poor countries. The middle class never
revolts because it has something and it can hope for more; it can invest for
more, it can desire, be ambitious, wait. So of course the middle class can
never go into revolution. Who knows?—you may lose even that which you
have got.
America has two classes, the middle class and the rich class, hence there is
never going to be a revolution. In Russia it happened, in China it happened,
because they were class-divided societies with clear-cut divisions. Now, in
India ninety-five percent of the people have nothing to lose. Four percent of
the people, the middle class, have a little bit to lose. One percent of the
people, the super-rich, have much to lose.
But in India the revolution has not happened in five thousand years.
Religion is the cause: it goes on giving you the whole of paradise, for
nothing. Why bother about the revolution? What are you going to gain?
Rather, be patient, prayerful, faithful; surrender to God and you will have
everything.
Jesus says to the poor people that it is possible for a camel to pass through
the eye of a needle, but it is not possible for a rich man to pass through the
gates of heaven. I don’t believe it. This is simply a consolation. This is
poison, pure poison. There is every possibility that the rich man will get
through the gates of heaven. He may bribe the gatekeeper—and if the
gatekeeper is Indian, there is no problem.
And the rich man, whom Jesus says cannot pass through the gates of
heaven, has done everything to be qualified to get through the gates of

heaven. He has made synagogues, temples; he has been donating to the
poor, giving charity, making hospitals, schools. What are the poor doing?
Do you think just being poor is a qualification?
At the gates of heaven will you be just saying, “Because I was poor, I
claim… And where is that guy Jesus who said, ‘Blessed are the poor, for
they shall inherit the kingdom of God’?” You won’t find Jesus there either.
He himself was poor—who will allow him to enter heaven? There is no
possibility.
Poverty is not a qualification for anything.
The rich man will find a thousand and one ways. All the priests will be
there to support the rich man. All the scriptures will be there to support the
rich man—because they were all created by the money of the rich man. The
priests have lived off the money of the rich man. Even God is the creation
of the rich man to befool the poor. And you think the poor will enter
heaven?
In fact, there is no heaven. It has been created to give hope to the poor, to
give consolation, to titillate their greed—using simple methods which the
poor can afford, like being humble. In fact, what else can he do? His
poverty has humiliated him enough and now you are saying, “Be humble.”
No, I cannot say that. I cannot humiliate anybody. And this teaching is
nothing but a strategy to make peace with his humiliated state.
You have been humiliated by everybody, you have been trodden on by
everybody, you are crushed by everybody—and then comes the priest to
give you the opium: “Don’t be worried, my son, this is just a passing phase.
If you remain humble and surrendered, everything is going to be okay for
you. And these rich people who are treading all over you—they will be
thrown into hell.”
And this priest lives on the money of the rich. He knows there is no hell.
The rich know there is no hell, there is no heaven, that this is a strategy for
the humiliated to be consoled No, I am not at all in favor of surrender.
My vision of a new religious consciousness has no place for surrender.

It teaches you integrity. It teaches you individuality. It teaches you selfhood.
It teaches you self-respect.
And the magic of self-respect is that the moment you start searching for
yourself, you will come across many shadowy selves, all phony. And it is
not difficult to see what is phony because anything that you come across is
phony. A simple criterion: anything that you find within you and think,
“This is my self,” know well that it is phony.
It is the finder who is the true one, not the found. The found is just the
object that you have achieved and accumulated. Discard all those selves
that you go on finding within you: “This is the self… No, this is the self…”
Go on discarding them. A simple criterion, there cannot be a more simple
criterion: anything that you find as your self is not your self. Go on
discarding, and a moment comes when you cannot find any self anywhere.
You cannot find anything—all is empty. And that is the moment of
awakening. Suddenly the seer is seen.
You are awakened to your own awareness.
You don’t find an objective self, you find a subjectivity, and finding it is
such a blessing, such an ecstasy that you will not care a bit about paradise.
And you will not be bothered any more about surrendering because there is
nothing to surrender. You have discarded all that was phony, that was only
pretension.
You have been told you are this, you are that, and you have accepted it. You
have started playing the game of being this and being that, and nobody has
told you—nobody can tell you—who you are. It is only you who can
discover it. In discovering it, the ego evaporates it is not surrendered,
because it is a non-existential, a shadowy thing, it has no substance in it.
A famous incident…
One of the kings, Bimbisara, came to Buddha. That day a rare thing had
happened. A poor man, a shoemaker, Sudas was his name… S udas means a
good slave, a nice slave, a slave who has no ideas of rebellion, of revolt or

anything, who is absolutely contented with his slavery. He had a small hut
and a small pond behind the hut.
That day, in his pond a lotus flower blossomed out of season. Once in a
while things like that happen in nature. It’s nothing to brag about, nothing to
make a miracle out of. Sudas asked his wife, “I should take this to the
richest man in the town because he goes every day to Gautam the Buddha,
and he will be delighted. And at least he is going to give me one rupee as a
reward.”
The wife said, “Go, be quick—he may be leaving.”
He went out on the road and found that the chariot of the richest man was
coming, going towards the mango grove where Buddha was staying. He
stopped the rich man and said, “Out of season a rare lotus flower has
blossomed in my pond, and I thought it would be good if you could present
it to your master, Gautam the Buddha.”
The rich man was really happy. He said, “Of course, because even my
master will be surprised to see it. This is not the season for lotuses. I will
give you one thousand rupees as a reward.”
The poor Sudas could not believe it—one thousand rupees! In those days
rupees were solid gold. In fact the word rupee comes from the Sanskrit
word rup , which means gold, pure gold. The coins were pure gold—one
thousand gold coins! The poor man said, “Please say it again, I cannot
believe my ears.”
The rich man thought that perhaps he was not willing to sell for one
thousand rupees. He said, “Don’t be worried: I will give you ten thousand,
or you can ask and whatever you ask I will give you, because I would love
to put this rare flower at Buddha’s feet; perhaps nobody has ever presented
such a thing to him.”
Sudas was so shocked, he lost his voice. He could not say, “Yes, ten
thousand is enough.”
And the rich man said, “Why are you silent? Are you not willing?”

While this negotiation was going on another chariot, the chariot of King
Bimbisara, came by. Seeing the lotus flower, the king stopped and said to
Sudas, “Sudas, whatsoever the rich man is going to give to you, I will give
you five times more. Whatever he is giving, just come to the palace and
collect five times more.”
Sudas was almost on the verge of falling dead. The rich man was giving ten
thousand, and he was willing to give even more. And now comes the king
who says, “Five times more, whatever!”—he is not even inquiring. Kings
are kings, they should not inquire the prices of things. And of course in
front of the king the rich man could not say anything. He knew well that
whatsoever he says, the king will give five times more. He had lost it.
The king asked Sudas… Sudas opened his mouth and said, “Forgive me,
but if this flower gives you so much pleasure, just presenting it to Buddha
—then I am going to present it myself. You can keep your money.
The king could not believe it. The rich man could not believe it. They both
said, “What are you saying?”
He said, “I am a poor man, but I manage to live. What am I going to do
with all your money? But I am not going to miss this chance that you think
is so precious. I am going to put this flower at Buddha’s feet myself.”
But kings cannot be denied. The king said, “Then you should be aware that
you will never reach Buddha; your head will be cut off. I will give you ten
times.”
Seeing the situation, the poor man had to give the lotus to the king. The
king was already going with a very precious diamond to present to Buddha.
That diamond that Bimbisara had was the biggest diamond known in those
days. Now he had two presents. When he went to Buddha, both hands were
full; in one a very precious diamond, in the other a very rare flower. Which
to present first?—of course he thought of the diamond.
As he was going to place the diamond, Buddha said, “Drop it!” He did not
give him the chance to put it at his feet, he said, “Drop it.” And when
Buddha says drop it, he has to drop it/ Unwillingly, reluctantly, because

such a precious diamond… In the whole country, all the kings were jealous
of the diamond—he was the owner of a rare piece—and Buddha says,
“Drop it!” He is not even giving him the chance to put it at his feet.
Then he raised the other hand with the flower, and Buddha said, “Drop it!”
So he dropped both and stood there empty-handed.
Buddha said, “Drop it!”
Bimbisara said, “Either you are mad or I am mad. Both my hands are empty
—now what can I drop?”
Sariputta, one of Buddha’s disciples, said, “You have not understood
Buddha. He is not interested in your diamond or in your lotus; you can take
them away. Drop the real thing.”
“What real thing?” he said. “I have only brought two things.”
Buddha said, “Drop yourself!”
“But,” Bimbisara said, “myself? I don’t know who I am.”
Buddha said, “That was the point. Go home, find out, and when you find
out who you are, then come back.”
It was very insulting in a way. In front of ten thousand sannyasins—and
Bimbisara is told to go back and look into himself and find out who he is.
But he was a man of tremendous courage, intelligence, integrity. He told the
palace, “Nobody should disturb me. Whatsoever time it takes, I am going to
find what this man says.”
For three days he remained in isolation. The fourth day he came out,
radiant, and went to Buddha. And when Buddha saw him, Buddha said,
“Now there is no need to drop anything because what you have found
cannot be dropped. I can see it on your face, in your eyes. I was telling you
to drop that which you were not.”
But you cannot drop it unless you find who you are. And the moment you
find who you are there is no need to drop it, it simply drops of its own

accord.
Let me repeat your question. You asked me: What is the place of surrender
in your religion ? From my side, there is no place.
I do not ask you to surrender. I ask you to seek and search your being.
Surrender will happen, but it will be a happening, not a doing. Neither I will
ask you for surrender nor have you to do it. But what I am asking you to do,
if you do it, surrender is going to happen. And when it happens of its own
accord then it is a totally different phenomenon, qualitatively different.
Then it is not ego pretending to be humble and meek and surrendered. Then
it is a state of no-ego.
The ego disappears in a very simple way. It is just like you are doing some
arithmetic and for two plus two, you put five. Somebody draws your
attention to the fact that two plus two are four, not five, and you see the
point. Do you have to drop five? Will it take effort to drop five?—struggle,
austerities, fasting? You simply erase it. It was just a mistake, and you will
write four.
The ego is just a mistake—just like two plus two is equal to five. Just like
that, when you look inwards and search for the real self, you come to know
that two plus two is four, not five. Nothing has to be dropped, but
something has disappeared from you. Something that was continuously
pretending to be your self, something that was destroying your whole life,
something that was messing up everything is found no more.
When the ego is not found, I call that surrender from your side; it is not part
of my vision. I will not ask you to surrender, but I will ask you something
else which brings the surrender of its own accord. But then you are not
humble, you are not meek, you are very grounded, very centered, very self-
respectful. And only a man who is self-respectful is capable of respecting
others.
The man who respects himself cannot humiliate anybody else, because he
knows that the same self is hidden in every being, even in the trees and the
rocks. Perhaps it is fast asleep in the rock, but that doesn’t matter; it is the
same existence in different forms.

A man who respects himself suddenly finds himself respecting the whole
universe.
He cannot humiliate anybody, he cannot be disrespectful to anybody.
But remember—he is not humble, he is not meek; you cannot exploit him in
the name of meekness and humbleness. He will not allow you to put him in
a position of humility, and he will not care about your kingdom of God.
He will say, “You can go to your kingdom of God. I have found my
kingdom of God; it is within me. I don’t need any messiah to take me to the
kingdom of God, all I need is an inner search. Except me, nobody else can
do it. I am responsible for losing my self; I have to be responsible for
finding it”
The truly religious man is difficult to understand because he will not fall
into any category of yours. Your categories are opposites: arrogant-
humble… Now where can you put a religious man? Arrogant?—he is not
arrogant. Humble?—he is not humble. He is simply himself.
A religious man cannot be categorized. All your categories fall short. He is
beyond all your categories, hence he is bound to be misunderstood.
I am not an arrogant man; I am not humble either. But then the question
arises, where do I stand? I don’t even stand in the middle of both because
that will be just half and half, something of arrogance and something of
humbleness. No, I don’t even stand in the exact middle. That’s where I
disagree with Gautam Buddha. He teaches to be always in the middle: don’t
be arrogant, don’t be humble, just be in the middle. But I say: exactly in the
middle you will be something of both.
No, the really religious man is beyond the categories of opposites. You
cannot categorize him. He is neither on this pole nor on that pole. He is not
in the middle either; he is just above.
He is a watcher on the hills, and everything else is deep in the valley.
Nothing touches him.

So sometimes you can interpret him as arrogant, sometimes you can
interpret him as humble, but those are your interpretations. As far as his
own experiences are concerned… And I can say it with my authority, I do
not need any scriptures to support me. I am not arrogant, I have never been
arrogant; I have never been humble either. I have been just myself. So
whatever the situation demanded, I acted, responded, neither with
humbleness nor with arrogance, but just whatsoever the moment needed—
with awareness.
Hence my teaching is in a way very simple if you can see the point.
If you miss the point it is very difficult.
I will not say to you to turn your other cheek if somebody hits you, no.
Jesus can say it because he teaches humbleness. I cannot say that. I can only
say one thing: let that moment decide. Sometimes perhaps you have to turn
the other cheek. Sometimes perhaps you have to hit the man harder than he
has hit you. Sometimes perhaps you have to hit him on both cheeks—but
nothing can be given to you as a ready-made formula. It will depend on
you, the person, the situation.
But act with awareness, then whatever you do is right.
So I don’t label acts as right and wrong. To me, the quality of your
awareness is decisive. If you can respond with awareness, then whatever
your response is, I declare it right. If you lose your awareness and react,
then whatever you do—you may be turning the other cheek—is wrong. Do
you see I have used two different words? With awareness I used the word
response ; with unawareness I used the word reaction .
Response comes from yourself.
Reaction is created by the other man: he has hit you. He is the master of the
situation, and you are simply a puppet. You are reacting. His action is
decisive, and because he has done something, now you are doing something
in reaction. This is the unconscious man’s behavior. That’s why the
unconscious man’s behavior can be manipulated very easily. You smile, he
will smile. You be angry, he will be angry.

It is because of this that people like Dale Carnegie can write books like
How to Win Friends and Influence People . All that you have to know is
simple reactions. He himself describes a situation…
He was functioning as an agent of an insurance company. And there was a
rich woman, the richest in the town, a widow, who was very much against
insurance, and insurance agents; so much so that insurance agents could not
even see her—just from the gate they were thrown out. Her orders were,
“Throw them out!” No question of an appointment…
And when he came to the city, all the other agents said, “You have written
this book, How to Win Friends and Influence People , now, if you can
insure this old lady we will think that you have something to say, otherwise
it is all hocus-pocus.” Dale Carnegie managed to insure the woman. How
did he do it? A simple method.
Early in the morning he went around the woman’s house. She was in the
garden. Standing outside the fence, he said, “I have never seen such
beautiful flowers.”
The old woman said, “Are you interested in roses?”
He said, “How did you know? I am mad about roses; the only flower that
attracts me is the rose.”
The woman said, “Why are you standing outside? Come in. I will show you
my roses. I am also mad about roses, and you will not come across such big
rose flowers as I have got.” And he was invited in. They went around her
big garden, full of beautiful roses. And he was all praise, and all the poetry
that he knew… The woman was so immensely impressed that she said,
“You seem to be such a wise man that I want to ask you one question. What
do you think about insurance?”—because she was tortured by these
insurance agents continually, and they were being thrown out.
He said, “For that I will have to come again because I will have to think it
over and do a little research on it. I never advise anybody unless I am
certain.”

The woman said, “That is right. You are the first man who is not too eager
to advise. That is the sure sign of a fool: too eager to advise.”
He said, “No, I will have to look at the whole matter. Perhaps it will take a
few days.” And during those few days he used to come every morning and
stand outside the fence.
And the woman said, “Now there is no need to be standing out there—I
have told all the servants that for you the doors are open twenty-four hours
a day. Whenever you want to come into the garden, you can come. If you
want to come into the house, you can. It is your house, don’t be shy.”
And within a few days he came with all the forms, the files and everything.
He said, “I have worked out the whole thing. In fact I had to become an
agent of an insurance company to find out absolutely all the details, the
inside story, because from the outside you cannot know much. Now I am
absolutely certain that this is the thing for you.”
Now, this is the way the whole of humanity functions: reaction. You just do
something that you know how the other unconscious being is going to react
to. And it is very rare that an insurance agent will meet an awakened man, a
rare possibility. In the first place the awakened man will not have anything
to be insured. Only with the awakened man will Dale Carnegie fail, because
he will not react, he will respond. And about response you cannot be
predictable.
The man of awareness is unpredictable because he never reacts. You cannot
figure out beforehand what he is going to do. And each moment he is anew.
He may have acted in a certain way in a certain moment. The next moment
he may not act in the same way because in the next moment everything has
changed.
Every moment life is continuously changing; it is a moving river; nothing is
static except your unconsciousness and its reactions, which are static.
I was expelled from one college—I was expelled many times. I loved it, I
enjoyed it; I am not complaining. I have no complaint against anything in
my life. Everything has been tremendously beautiful. That expulsion was

also beautiful. I had to search for a new college, but before I could be
admitted I somehow had to persuade the principal, because the whole city
knew—there were twenty colleges—the whole city was aware that I was
continually being expelled from one college to another.
I have been educated in many colleges. People ordinarily for one degree go
to one college; for one degree I have gone to a dozen colleges. For two or
three months at the most they were able to withstand me. So I went to the
principal’s house, not to the college. I inquired about him from the
neighbors, what kind of man he was. They said, “Very religious; every
morning… He is a follower of the goddess Kali.” He himself was a very
strong man, black— kali means black—very tall and very fat. He never
needed any microphone, there was no need; he could address ten thousand
students without any loudspeaker system.
So the whole neighborhood told me, “Early in the morning for two hours,
three hours, he is such a nuisance because he just continues, ‘ Jai Kali! Jai
Kali! Jai Kali!’—and you know the man and his voice! “ Jai Kali” means
victory to the mother goddess Kali. “And he gets so agitated that he gets
louder and louder. First he starts by sitting, and then he stands up. And he
almost looks like Kali himself.”
Kali is a very ugly goddess, a very ugly woman with four hands, with a
necklace of human skulls. With one hand she is holding a head, freshly cut
off, blood dropping from it; in another hand, a sword. And she is standing
on her husband’s chest!—a real woman. The world needs such women.
So I inquired about everything, and then I went early in the morning at six
o’clock and he was doing his thing, and really he was hot! He had a small
temple in his house. I simply went in and sat there by the side. When he
was just coming to the end of it I started, “ Jai Kali!”
He looked around and he said, “Who are you?”
I said, “Don’t disturb me,” and I started again: “ Jai Kali!”
He said, “But this is strange. For the first time—and you are so young. Are
you a devotee of Kali?”

I said, “What do you think? Do you think you are the only devotee of Kali
in this city?”
He said, “I used to think that nobody was such a devotee as I am, but you
certainly seem to be!”
I said, “No, not compared to you. You are far ahead. You are almost a saint;
I am just a beginner, an amateur.”
He said, “No, you are not an amateur! What do you do?” He wanted to talk
and he pulled me along: “Come with me, have breakfast.” So I had
breakfast with him. He said, “You are the only man who has understood me
—when you said, ‘You are almost a saint…’ Nobody thinks me a saint, they
think that I am a monster. And these neighbors would kill me if they could
manage, but knowing me they are afraid, they are cowards. You are the only
man in my whole life who has understood me. What do you do?”
I said, “I study in a college.”
He said, “Drop that college. Join my college.”
I said, “If you say so, I can drop anything. Dropped! Done!” And I joined
his college.
After a few days he came to know. Then he called me and said, “You are a
rascal.”
I said, “You should have understood, even on that day. You are not a saint
either, but I wanted admission. What else to do?”
Unconscious people are predictable. You can manage them easily. You can
make them do things, say things, even things that they never wanted to do
or never wanted to say, because they react.
But a man of awareness, an authentically religious man only responds. He
is not in your hands; you cannot pull him down, you cannot make him do
anything. You cannot manage to draw out even a single sentence from him.

He will do only that which in that moment he finds—through his awareness
—is appropriate.
Yes, surrender happens. But remember, in my vision there is no place for
“doing” surrender. Surrender is not expected of you, it is not asked from
you, but it happens. I am simply making you aware of it. And when it
happens nothing can be done about it. But the happening is so graceful and
beautiful it does not leave any trace behind it.
The ego simply evaporates and you are left without ego—neither humble
nor arrogant, just without ego.
You cannot even say, “I am egoless,” because there is no longer an “I” to
declare it; there is only a kind of am-ness, there is no “I” in it. The “I” goes
with the ego.
Am-ness remains with your existence and becomes really a tremendous
force, changing everything that you have been before.
It cuts you from your past.
It gives you a new birth.
For more information:

a comprehensive multi-language website that includes a magazine, a
catalog of OSHO Books, OSHO TALKS in audio and video formats, the
OSHO Library text archive in English and Hindi and extensive information
about OSHO Meditations. You will also find the program schedule of the
OSHO Multiversity and information about the OSHO International
Meditation Resort.
To 
contact 
OSHO 
International 
Foundation 
go 
to:

About the Author

Osho’s teachings defy categorization, covering everything from the
individual quest for meaning to the most urgent social and political issues
facing society today. His books are not written but are transcribed from
audio and video recordings of extemporaneous talks given to international
audiences over a period of 35 years. Osho has been described by the
Sunday Times in London as one of the “1000 Makers of the 20 th Century”
and by American author Tom Robbins as “the most dangerous man since
Jesus Christ.”
About his own work Osho has said that he is helping to create the
conditions for the birth of a new kind of human being. He has often
characterized this new human being as “Zorba the Buddha”—capable both
of enjoying the earthy pleasures of a Zorba the Greek and the silent serenity
of a Gautam Buddha. Running like a thread through all aspects of Osho’s
work is a vision that encompasses both the timeless wisdom of the East and
the highest potential of Western science and technology.
Osho is also known for his revolutionary contribution to the science of
inner transformation, with an approach to meditation that acknowledges the
accelerated pace of contemporary life. His unique “Active Meditations” are
designed to first release the accumulated stresses of body and mind, so that
it is easier to experience the thought-free and relaxed state of meditation.
Two autobiographical works by the author are available:
Autobiography of a Spiritually Incorrect Mystic (St. Martin’s Press, New
York)
Glimpses of a Golden Childhood (Rebel Publishing House, India)
OSHO International Meditation Resort
The OSHO International Meditation Resort is a great place for holidays and
a place where people can have a direct personal experience of a new way of
living with more alertness, relaxation, and fun. Located about 100 miles
southeast of Mumbai in Pune, India, the resort offers a variety of programs
to thousands of people who visit each year from more than 100 countries
around the world. Originally developed as a summer retreat for Maharajas

and wealthy British colonialists, Pune is now a thriving modern city that is
home to a number of universities and high-tech industries. The Meditation
Resort spreads over 40 acres in a tree-lined suburb known as Koregaon
Park. The resort campus provides accommodation for a limited number of
guests, in a new ‘Guesthouse’ and there is a plentiful variety of nearby
hotels and private apartments available for stays of a few days up to several
months.
Meditation Resort programs are all based in the Osho vision of a
qualitatively new kind of human being who is able both to participate
creatively in everyday life and to relax into silence and meditation. Most
programs take place in modern, air-conditioned facilities and include a
variety of individual sessions, courses and workshops covering everything
from creative arts to holistic health treatments, personal transformation and
therapy, esoteric sciences, the “Zen” approach to sports and recreation,
relationship issues, and significant life transitions for men and women.
Individual sessions and group workshops are offered throughout the year,
alongside a full daily schedule of meditations. Outdoor cafes and
restaurants within the resort grounds serve both traditional Indian fare and a
choice of international dishes, all made with organically grown vegetables
from the resort’s own farm. The campus has its own private supply of safe,
filtered water.
See: