wasting vast amounts of energy attacking ourselves, each other, and this
beautiful planet in a way no other life-form does.
Here is the missing bit of the puzzle. First, it took a few hundred million
years for single-cell life-forms to appear, and then another few billion years
of biological evolution before the animals and the trees appeared. Up to this
point, all life was pre-programmed how to live. Then, a mere few hundred
thousand years ago, we arrived. As Osho explains, prior to the arrival of our
species, “No other animal has been given the gift of being free; every
animal is given an already fixed program. All animals are programmed
except man. A dog is bound to be a dog, and forever a dog; nothing else is
possible, there is no freedom. He is programmed, everything is built-in. The
blueprint is there, he will simply follow the blueprint: he will be a dog.
There is no choice for him, no alternatives are available. He is an absolutely
fixed entity.”
With man, everything changes. “The immense gift of existence is
freedom. You are left unprogrammed, you don’t carry a blueprint. You have
to create yourself, you have to be self-creative. So it all depends on you:
you can become a Buddha, a Bahauddin, or you can become an Adolf
Hitler, a Benito Mussolini. You can become a murderer or a meditator. You
can allow yourself to become a beautiful flowering of consciousness, or you
can become a robot. But remember, you are responsible—and only you, and
nobody else.”
This understanding provides a unique picture of our place in the story of
life. Biological evolution has brought us only so far—to a point where it is
now up to us to fulfill our potential as human beings and to create a world
fit to live in. Unlike all evolutionary processes in the past, this next step is
in our hands! It seems we humans are faced with a critical moment: we

either change ourselves or we can expect the current madness in the world
to continue.
Osho describes our dilemma so clearly: “Man is always in crisis. Man is
crisis—constant. It is not accidental, it is essential. Man’s very being
consists of crisis; hence the anxiety, the tension, the anguish. Man is the
only animal who grows, who moves, who becomes. Man is the only animal
who is not born complete, who is not born closed—who is not born like a
thing, who is born like a process. Man is open. His being consists in
becoming—that is the crisis. The more he becomes, the more he is.”
Osho continues to help us unravel the underlying basis of this crisis:
“The unconscious pulls you back toward the animal world; its pull is
downward, backward. And the conscious is trying to pull you upward so
you become more conscious, because consciousness has given you many
things. Yes, it has given you anxiety, tension, anguish, but it has also given
you music, painting, poetry. And it has given you a dignity that no animal
has, the dignity of being conscious.”
Of course, once you see what is happening in this light, it makes total
sense. If freedom is the highest potential of existence, then it cannot be just
“given” to us like our arms and our legs. Anything given can be taken away
and could never be the basis of true freedom. Either we live robotically,
unconsciously destroying ourselves, our neighbors, and the world around
us, or we bite the bullet and accept the simple realization that either we
change or everything will continue the same. It is up to us.
And what is the way out of this crisis? Osho again is clear: “You have to
bring some new element into the world of biology, and that I call meditation
—a ray of meditation, a ray of watchfulness. That does not belong to
biology at all, because animals are not aware, trees are not aware. They live
in 100 percent unconsciousness.”

Naturally the question arises: What is the connection between
meditation and trust? Osho explains this precisely: “Without meditation you
will not be able to find trust in yourself. And the day of finding the trust in
yourself is the greatest day in your eternal life. It changes all the vision, all
perception, all judgment about existence and about other people. The trust
goes on growing and spreading all around you. Only then will you have
unconditional trust in existence.”
So, the way ahead for each one of us is inescapable. A journey, as Osho
reveals, which can be the most delightful voyage there is:
“Relax into your being, you are cherished by the whole. That’s why the
whole goes on breathing in you, pulsating in you. Once you start feeling
this tremendous respect and love and trust of the whole in you, you will
start growing roots into your being. You will trust yourself. And only then
can you trust me. Only then can you trust your friends, your children, your
husband, your wife. Only then can you trust the trees and the animals and
the stars and the moon. Then one simply lives as trust. It is no longer a
question of trusting this or that; one simply trusts.”
Time to start reading this book!
  John Andrews
M.D., M.B., B.S.M.R.C.
John Andrews is an author, scientist, and meditator who was Osho’s
personal physician, taking care of his body for many years, including the
last days. As a meditator and a scientist for many decades, John Andrews
has enjoyed following the gradual acceptance of meditation by the scientific
community as it turns into the current flood of interest. He now writes about
the final step of that journey, from meditation to Osho meditations.

PROLOGUE
THIS IS IT …
The distinction is very subtle, but it is the same distinction as there is
between the mind and the heart, as there is between logic and love—or,
even more appropriate, as there is between prose and poetry.
A destination is a very clear-cut thing; direction is very intuitive. A
destination is something outside you, more like a thing. A direction is an
inner feeling; not an object, but your very subjectivity. You can feel
direction, you cannot know it. You can know the destination, you cannot
feel it. Destination is in the future. Once decided, you start manipulating
your life toward it, steering your life toward it.
How can you decide the future? Who are you to decide the unknown?
How is it possible to fix the future? Future is that which is not yet known;
future is an open possibility. By fixing a destination your future is no longer
a future, because it is no longer open. Now you have chosen one alternative
out of many—because when all the alternatives were open it was future.
Now, all alternatives have been dropped; only one alternative has been
chosen. It is no longer future, it is your past.
The past decides when you decide a destination. Your experience of the
past, your knowledge of the past decides. You kill the future. Then you go
on repeating your own past—maybe a little modified, a little changed here

and there according to your comfort or your convenience; repainted,
renovated—but still it comes out of the past. This is the way one loses track
of future: by deciding a destination one loses track of future. One becomes
dead. One starts functioning like a mechanism.
Direction is something alive, in the moment. It knows nothing of the
future, it knows nothing of the past, but it throbs, it pulsates, but here and
now. And out of this pulsating moment, the next moment is created. Not by
any decision on your part—but just because you live this moment and you
live it so totally, and you love this moment so wholly, out of this wholeness
the next moment is born. It is going to have a direction. That direction is not
given by you, it is not imposed by you; it is spontaneous. That’s what the
Bauls in India call sahaj manush, the spontaneous man.
The spontaneous man is the way to the real man, to the essential man, to
the God within. You cannot decide direction, you can only live this moment
that is available to you. By living it, direction arises. If you dance, the next
moment is going to be of a deeper dance. Not that you decide, but you
simply dance this moment. You have created a direction: you are not
manipulating it. The next moment will be more full of dancing, and still
more will be following.
Destination is fixed by the mind; direction is earned by living.
Destination is logical: one wants to be a doctor, one wants to be an
engineer, one wants to be a scientist or one wants to be a politician, one
wants to be a rich man, a famous man—these are destinations. Direction?—
one simply lives the moment in deep trust that life will decide. One lives
this moment so totally that out of this totality a freshness is born. Out of this
totality the past dissolves and the future starts taking shape. But this shape
is not given by you, this shape is earned by you.

One Zen master, Rinzai, was dying; he was on his deathbed. Somebody
asked, “Master, people will ask after you are gone, what was your essential
teaching? You have said many things, you have talked about many things—
it will be difficult for us to condense it. Before you leave, please, you
yourself condense it into a single sentence, so we can treasure it. And
whenever people who have not known you desire, we can give them your
essential teaching.”
Dying, Rinzai opened his eyes, gave a great Zen shout, a lion’s roar!
They were all shocked! They couldn’t believe that this dying man could
have so much energy, and they were not expecting it. The man was
unpredictable; he had always been so. But even with this unpredictable man
they were not in any way expecting that dying, at the last moment, he
would give such a lion’s roar. And when they were shocked—and of course
their minds stopped, they were surprised, taken aback—Rinzai said, “This
is it!” closed his eyes, and died.
This is it.…
This moment, this silent moment, this moment uncorrupted by thought,
this silence that was all around, this surprise, this last lion’s roar over death;
this is it.
Yes, direction comes out of living this moment. It is not something that
you manage and plan. It happens, it is very subtle—and you will never be
certain about it, you can only feel it. That’s why I say it is more like poetry
not like prose; more like love not like logic; more like art than like science.
Vague  … and that’s its beauty—hesitant, as hesitant as a dewdrop on a
blade of grass—slipping, not knowing where, not knowing why; in the
morning sun, just slipping on a blade of grass.
Direction is very subtle, delicate, fragile. That’s why everybody has
chosen destination. Society tries to fix a destination for you. Parents,

teachers, culture, religion, government: they all try to give you a fixed
pattern of life. They don’t want you to be free, left alone, moving into the
unknown. But that’s how they have created boredom. If you know your
future beforehand, it is already boring. If you know that you are going to be
this, it is already boring.
Future should be a direction, not a destination. It should be more like
nirvana. The word Buddha uses means all that you know will not be there.
That’s his definition of nirvana: all that you know will not be there, all that
you have experienced will not be there, all that you are will not be there—
something totally new, something that you cannot understand because you
don’t have the language to understand it, you don’t have the experience to
understand it. Something absolutely new—it cannot be talked about.
Nirvana is a direction. Firdaus and paradise, Mohammedan and Christian,
are destinations, very clear-cut.
The mediocre mind demands clear-cut goals because he is so insecure—
he cannot trust his own awareness, and he cannot trust life. The mediocre
mind is very afraid of discovery, and discovery is the greatest secret in life.
To be ready to be surprised, to be always ready to be surprised means that
one is innocent; trying to discover. And life is such that you can go on
discovering. The more you discover it, the more you come to know—that
much more is still left. It is a nonending process. Direction is a nonending
process. Remember, it is a process, movement; destination is a dead thing.
Destination belongs to the ego; direction belongs to life, to being. To
move in the world of direction one needs tremendous trust, because one is
moving in insecurity, one is moving in darkness. But the darkness has a
thrill in it: without any map, without any guide, you are moving into the
unknown. Each step is a discovery, and it is not only a discovery of the
outside world. Simultaneously, something is discovered in you also. A

discoverer not only discovers things. As he goes on discovering more and
more 
unknown 
worlds, 
he 
goes 
on 
discovering 
himself 
also,
simultaneously. Each discovery is also an inner discovery. The more you
know, the more you know about the knower. The more you love, the more
you know about the lover.
I am not going to give you a destination. I can only give you a direction
—awake, throbbing with life and the unknown, always surprising,
unpredictable. I’m not going to give you a map. I can give you only a great
passion to discover. Yes, a map is not needed; great passion, great desire to
discover is needed. Then I leave you alone. Then you go on your own.
Move into the vast, into the infinite, and by and by learn to trust it. Leave
yourself in the hands of life, because life is God. When Jesus says, “Thy
Kingdom come, thy will be done,” he is saying this … a great trust. Even if
God brings death, there is nothing to be afraid of. It is he who is bringing
death, so there must be a reason in it, there must be a hidden secret in it,
there must be a teaching in it. He’s opening a door.
The man who trusts, the man who is religious is thrilled even at the gate
of death—he can give a lion’s roar. Even dying—because he knows nothing
dies—at the very moment of death he can say, “This is it!” Because each
moment, this is it. It may be life, it may be death; it may be success, it may
be failure; it may be happiness, it may be unhappiness. Each moment …
this is it.
This is what I call the real prayer. And then you will have direction. You
need not worry about it, you need not fix it—you can move with trust.

WHAT IS TRUST?
What is trust? Is it a belief? No, because belief belongs to the mind. Trust is
a rapport. You simply put aside all your defense measures, your armor; you
become vulnerable. You listen to something, and you listen so totally that
the feeling arises in you as to whether it is true or not. If it is untrue, you
feel it; if it is true, you feel it—why does this happen? It happens because
truth resides in you. When you are totally nonthinking, your inner truth can
feel wherever truth is—because the same always feels the same, it fits.
Suddenly everything fits, everything falls into a pattern and the chaos
becomes a cosmos. The words fall in line, and a poetry arises. Then
everything simply fits.
If you are in rapport, and the truth is there, your inner being simply
agrees with it—but it is not an intellectual agreement. You feel a tuning. You
become one. This is trust. If something is wrong, it simply falls from you—
you never pay it a second thought, you never look at it a second time: there
is no meaning in it. You never say, “This is untrue.” It simply doesn’t fit,
and you move on! If it fits it becomes your home. If it doesn’t fit, you move.
Through listening comes trust.
FIRST, TRUST IN YOURSELF

Be receptive, be loving, and trust nature that has given birth to you. You are
its extension, you are not separate from it. It cares for you; it protects you,
in life and in death. It is your security, the only security there is. Feel
secure, at ease, relaxed, and one day when the mind is completely silent
truth happens. It simply comes like a ray of light into the darkness of your
existence, and all is revealed.
*   *   *
TRUST IS POSSIBLE ONLY IF FIRST YOU TRUST IN YOURSELF. The most
fundamental thing has to happen within you first. If you trust in yourself
you can trust in me, you can trust in people, you can trust in existence. But
if you don’t trust in yourself, then no other trust is ever possible.
The society destroys trust at the very roots: it does not allow you to trust
yourself. It teaches all other kinds of trust—trust in the parents, trust in the
church, trust in the state, trust in God, ad infinitum, but the basic trust is
completely destroyed. And then all other trusts are phony—are bound to be
phony! Then all other trusts are just plastic flowers; you don’t have real
roots for real flowers to grow.
The society does it deliberately, on purpose, because one who trusts in
himself is dangerous for the society—a society that depends on slavery, a
society that has invested so much in slavery. A person trusting himself is
independent. You cannot make predictions about him, he will move in his
own way; freedom will be his life. He will trust when he feels, when he
loves, and then his trust will have a tremendous intensity and truth in it.
Then his trust will be alive and authentic. And he will be ready to risk all
for his trust—but only when he feels it, only when it is true, only when it
stirs his heart, only when it stirs his intelligence and his love, otherwise not.
You cannot force him into any kind of believing.

This society depends on belief; its whole structure is that of
autohypnosis. Its whole structure is based in creating robots and machines,
not men. It needs dependent people—so dependent that they are constantly
in need of being tyrannized, so dependent that they are searching and
seeking their own tyrants, their own Adolf Hitlers, their own Mussolinis,
their own Joseph Stalins and Mao Zedongs. This earth, this beautiful earth
we have turned into a great prison. A few power-lusty people have reduced
the whole of humanity into a mob. Man is allowed to exist only if he
compromises with all kinds of nonsense.
Now, to tell a child to believe in God is nonsense, utter nonsense—not
that godliness does not exist, but because the child has not yet felt the thirst,
the desire, the longing. He is not yet ready to go in search of the truth, the
ultimate truth of life. He is not yet mature enough to inquire into the reality
of God. That love affair has to happen someday, but it can happen only if no
belief is imposed upon him. If he is converted before the thirst has arisen to
explore and to know, then his whole life he will live in a phony way, he will
live in a pseudo way. Yes, he will talk about God because he has been told
that God is. He has been told authoritatively, and he has been told by people
who were very powerful in his childhood—his parents, the priests, the
teachers. He has been told by people and he had to accept it; it was a
question of his survival. He could not say no to his parents, because without
them he would not be able to live at all. It was too risky to say no, he had to
say yes. But his yes can’t be true.
How can it be true? He is saying yes only as a political device, to
survive. You have not turned him into a religious person, you have made
him a diplomat, you have created a politician. You have sabotaged his
potential to grow into an authentic being. You have poisoned him. You have
destroyed the very possibility of his intelligence, because intelligence arises

only when the longing to know arises. Now the longing will never arise—
because before the question has taken possession of his soul, the answer has
already been supplied! Before he was hungry, the food has been forced into
his being. Now without hunger, this forced food cannot be digested; there is
no hunger to digest it.
That’s why people live like pipes through which life passes like
undigested food.
One has to be very patient with children, very alert, very conscious not
to say anything that may hinder their own intelligence from arriving. Not to
convert them into Christians, Hindus, and Mohammedans. One needs
infinite patience. One day that miracle happens when the child himself
starts inquiring. Then too, don’t supply him with ready-made answers.
Ready-made answers help nobody, ready-made answers are dull and stupid.
Help him to become more intelligent. Rather than giving him answers, give
him situations and challenges so that his intelligence is sharpened and he
asks more deeply—so that the question penetrates to his very core, so the
question becomes a question of life and death.
But that is not allowed. Parents are very much afraid, the society is very
much afraid: If children are allowed to remain free, who knows? They may
never come to the fold the parents belonged to, they may never go to the
church—Catholic, Protestant, this or that. Who knows what is going to
happen when they become intelligent on their own? They will not be within
your control. This society goes into deeper and deeper politics to control
everybody, to possess everybody’s soul.
That’s why the first thing they have to do is to destroy trust—the trust of
the child in himself, the confidence of the child in himself. They have to
make him shaky and afraid. Once he is trembling, he is controllable. If he is
confident he is uncontrollable. If he is confident he will assert himself, he

will try to do his own thing. He will never want to do anybody else’s thing.
He will go on his own journey, he will not fulfill somebody else’s desires
for some trip. He will never be an imitator, he will never be a dull and dead
person. He will be so alive, so pulsating with life that nobody will be able to
control him.
Destroy his trust and you have castrated him. You have taken his power.
Now he will always be powerless and always in need of somebody to
dominate, direct, and command him. Now he will be a good soldier, a good
citizen, a good nationalist, a good Christian, a good Mohammedan, a good
Hindu. Yes, he will be all these things, but he will not be a real individual.
He will not have any roots; he will be uprooted his whole life. He will live
without roots, and to live without roots is to live in misery, is to live in hell.
Just as trees need roots in the earth, man is also a tree and needs roots in
existence or else he will live a very unintelligent life. He may succeed in the
world, he may become very famous …
Just the other day, I was reading a story:
Three surgeons, old friends, met on holiday. On the beach, sitting
under the sun, they started boasting. The first said, “I came across a
man who had lost both of his legs in the war. I gave him artificial
legs, and it has been a miracle. Now he has become one of the
greatest runners in the world! There is every possibility that in the
next coming Olympics he is going to win.”
The other said, “That’s nothing. I came across a woman who fell
from a thirty-story building: her face was completely crushed. I did
a great job of plastic surgery. Now just the other day I came to know
through the newspapers that she has become the world beauty
queen.”

The third was a humble man. They both looked at him and asked,
“What have you done lately? What’s new?”
The man said, “Nothing much—and moreover, I am not allowed
to say anything about it.”
Both his colleagues became more curious. They said, “But we
are friends, we can keep your secret. You need not be worried, it will
not leak out.”
So he said, “Okay, if you say so, if you promise. A man was
brought to me: he had lost his head in a car accident. I was at a loss
to know what to do. I rushed into my garden just to think what to do,
and suddenly I came across a cabbage. Finding nothing else, I
transplanted the cabbage in place of the head. And do you know
what? That man has become the prime minister of India.”
You can destroy the child, still he can become the prime minister of
India! There is no inherent impossibility of becoming successful without
intelligence. In fact it is more difficult to become successful with
intelligence, because the intelligent person is inventive. He is always ahead
of his time; it takes time to understand him. The unintelligent person is
easily understood. He fits with the gestalt of the society; the society has
values and criteria by which to judge him. But it takes years for the society
to evaluate a genius.
I am not saying that a person who has no intelligence cannot become
successful, cannot become famous—but still he will remain phony. And
that is the misery: you can become famous, but if you are phony you live in
misery. You don’t know what blessings life is showering on you, you will
never know. You do not have enough intelligence to know. You will never
see the beauty of existence because you don’t have the sensitivity to know
it. You will never see the sheer miracle that surrounds you, that crosses your

path in millions of ways every day. You will never see it, because to see it
you need a tremendous capacity to understand, to feel, to be.
This society is a power-oriented society. This society is still utterly
primitive, utterly barbarous. A few people—politicians, priests, professors
—a few people are dominating millions. And this society is run in such a
way that no child is allowed to have intelligence. It is a sheer accident that
once in a while a Buddha arrives on the earth—a sheer accident. Somehow,
once in a while, a person escapes from the clutches of the society. Once in a
while a person remains unpoisoned by the society. That must be because of
some error, some mistake of the society. Otherwise the society succeeds in
destroying your roots, in destroying your trust in yourself. And once that is
done, you will never be able to trust anybody.
Once you are incapable of loving yourself, you will never be able to
love anybody. That is an absolute truth, there are no exceptions to it. You
can love others only if you are able to love yourself.
But the society condemns self-love. It says it is selfishness, it says it is
narcissistic. Yes, self-love can become narcissistic but it is not necessarily
so. It can become narcissistic if it never moves beyond itself, it can become
a kind of selfishness if it becomes confined to yourself. Otherwise, self-love
is the beginning of all other loves.
A person who loves himself sooner or later starts overflowing with love.
A person who trusts himself cannot distrust anybody—even those who are
going to deceive him, even those who have already deceived him. Yes, he
cannot even distrust them, because now he knows trust is far more valuable
than anything else. You can cheat a person—but in what can you cheat him?
You can take some money or something else from him. But the man who
knows the beauty of trust will not be distracted by these small things. He

will still love you, he will still trust you. And then a miracle happens: if a
man really trusts you, it is impossible to cheat him, almost impossible.
It happens every day in your life, too. Whenever you trust somebody it
becomes impossible for him to cheat you, to deceive you. Sitting on the
platform in a railway station, you don’t know the person who is sitting by
your side—a stranger, a complete stranger—and you say to him, “Just
watch my luggage, I have to go to purchase a ticket. Please, just take care of
the luggage.” And you go. You trust an absolute stranger. But it almost
never happens that the stranger deceives you. He could have deceived you
if you had not trusted him. Trust has a magic in it. How can he deceive you
now that you have trusted him? How can he fall so low? He will never be
able to forgive himself if he deceives you.
There is an intrinsic quality in human consciousness to trust and to be
trusted. Everybody enjoys being trusted. It is respect from the other person,
and when you trust a stranger it is more so. There is no reason to trust him,
and still you trust him. You raise the man to such a high pedestal, you value
the man so much, it is almost impossible for him to fall from that height.
And if he falls he will never be able to forgive himself; he will have to carry
the weight of guilt his whole life.
One who trusts himself comes to know the beauty of it—comes to know
that the more you trust yourself the more you bloom. The more you are in a
state of let-go and relaxation the more you are settled and serene, the more
you are calm, cool, and quiet. And it is so beautiful that you start trusting
more and more people, because the more you trust the more your calmness
deepens, your coolness goes deeper and deeper to the very core of your
being. And the more you trust the more you soar high. One who can trust
will sooner or later know the logic of trust. And then, one day, he is bound
to try to trust the unknown.

Start trusting yourself—that is the first thing. That’s what my
work here is: to destroy the distrust that has been created in you
about yourself.
Start trusting yourself—that is the first thing. That’s what my work here
is: to destroy the distrust that has been created in you about yourself, to
destroy all condemnation that has been imposed on you, to take it away
from you and to give you a feeling that you are loved and respected, loved
by existence. God has created you because he loved you. He loved you so
much that he could not resist the temptation to create you.
When a painter paints, he paints because he loves. When a poet
composes a song it is because he loves it. God has painted you, sung you,
danced you. God loves you! And if you don’t see any meaning in the word
God don’t be worried—call it existence, call it the whole.
Existence loves you, otherwise you would not be here.
Relax into your being, you are cherished by the whole.
Existence loves you, otherwise you would not be here.
Relax into your being, you are cherished by the whole. That’s why the
whole goes on breathing in you, pulsating in you. Once you start feeling
this tremendous respect and love and trust of the whole in you, you will
start growing roots into your being. You will trust yourself. Only then can
you trust me; only then can you trust your friends, your children, your
husband, your wife. Only then can you trust the trees and the animals and
the stars and the moon. Then one simply lives as trust. It is no longer a
question of trusting this or that; one simply trusts. And to trust is simply to
be religious.

That’s what sannyas is all about. Sannyas is going to undo all that the
society has done. It is not just accidental that priests are against me,
politicians are against me, parents are against me, the whole establishment
is against me—it is not accidental. I can understand the absolutely clear
logic of it. I am trying to undo what they have done. I am sabotaging the
whole pattern of this slave society. My effort is to create rebels, and the
beginning of the rebel is to trust in oneself. If I can help you to trust in
yourself, I have helped you. Nothing else is needed, everything else follows
of its own accord.
DOUBT IS YOUR FRIEND
Inquiry is a risk. It is moving into the unknown. One does not know what is
going to happen. One leaves everything that one is acquainted with, is
comfortable with, and one moves into the unknown, not even perfectly
certain whether there is anything on the other shore, or even whether there
is another shore.
So people cling either to theism, or those who are a little stronger,
intellectual, the intelligentsia—they cling to atheism. But both are escapes
from doubt. And to escape from doubt is to escape from inquiry—because
what is doubt? It is only a question mark. It is not your enemy. It is simply a
question mark within you which prepares you to inquire.
Doubt is your friend.
*   *   *
FAITH IS AFRAID OF DOUBT—afraid because it has repressed it. Whatever you
repress you will remain afraid of, because it is always there deep inside you
waiting to take revenge, and whenever the opportunity arises it is going to

explode in you with vengeance. Your faith sits on an earthquake, and every
day the doubt becomes stronger because every day you have to repress it.
Sooner or later it is more than you can repress, it is more powerful than
your faith. Then it simply throws your faith away.
But trust is not afraid of doubt because trust is not against doubt. Trust
uses doubt, trust knows how to use the energy contained in doubt itself.
That’s the difference between faith and trust. Faith is false; it creates a
pseudo kind of religion, it creates hypocrites. Trust has a sublime beauty
and truth about it. It grows through doubt, it uses doubt as manure, it
transforms doubt. Doubt is a friend, doubt is not the enemy.
Doubt is a friend, doubt is not the enemy.
And unless your trust has moved through many doubts, it will
remain impotent.
And unless your trust has moved through many doubts, it will remain
impotent. From where will it gather strength, from where will it gather
integration? If there is no challenge it is bound to remain weak. Doubt is a
challenge. If your trust can respond to the challenge, can befriend your
doubt, it will grow through it. And you will not be a split person, deep
down doubting and just on the surface faithful, believing. You will have a
kind of unity, you will be an individual, undivided. And that individuality is
what is called “soul” in the old religions.
The soul is arrived at through doubt, not through believing. Belief is just
a mask: you are hiding your original face. Trust is a transformation: you are
becoming more illumined. And because you are using doubt as a challenge,
as an opportunity, there is never any repression. Slowly, slowly, doubt
disappears because its energy has been taken by trust.

Doubt, in fact, is nothing but trust growing. Doubt is trust on the way.
Always think of doubt in such a way: that doubt is trust on the way. Doubt
is inquiry, and trust is the fulfillment of the inquiry. Doubt is the question
and trust is the answer. The answer is not against the question—there will
be no possibility of any answer if there is no question—the question has
created the occasion for the answer to happen.
All the so-called religions exist on your guilt, they don’t exist on
the existence of God. They have nothing to do with God, and God
has nothing to do with them. They exist on your guilt.
So, please, never feel guilty around me. I am utterly against any kind of
guilt. Guilt is absolutely wrong. But it has been used by the priests and the
politicians and the puritans down the ages, for centuries. Guilt is a strategy,
a strategy to exploit people, to make them feel guilty. Once you have
succeeded in making them feel guilty, they will be your slaves. Because of
the guilt they will never be integrated enough. Because of the guilt they will
remain divided. Because of the guilt they will never be able to accept
themselves, they will be always condemning. Because of the guilt they will
be ready to believe in anything just to get rid of guilt. They will do
anything, any nonsense ritual they will perform just to get rid of the guilt.
Down the centuries the priest has made people guilty. All the so-called
religions exist on your guilt, they don’t exist on the existence of God. They
have nothing to do with God, and God has nothing to do with them. They
exist on your guilt.
You are afraid, you know that you are wrong: you have to seek the help
of somebody who is not wrong. You know that you are unworthy: you have
to bow down, you have to serve those who are worthy. You know that you
cannot trust yourself, because you are divided. Only an undivided person

can trust himself, his feeling, his intuition. You are always shaking,
trembling inside; you need somebody to lean on. And once you lean on
somebody, once you become dependent on somebody, you remain childish,
you never grow. Your mental age remains that of a child. You never attain
to any maturity, you never become independent. And the priest does not
want you to become independent. Independent and you are lost to him;
dependent and you are his whole marketplace, his whole business.
I am utterly against any kind of guilt. Remember it always: if you start
feeling guilty about something around me, then you are doing it on your
own. Then you are still carrying the voices of your parents, the priests
within you; you have not yet heard me, you have not yet listened to me. I
want you to be totally free of all guilt.
Once you are free of guilt, you are a religious person. That’s my
definition of a religious person. Use doubt—doubt is beautiful, because it is
only through doubt that the trust attains to maturity. How can it be
otherwise? It has to be beautiful; it is only through doubt that the trust
becomes centered. It is only through doubt that the trust flowers, blooms. It
is the dark night of doubt that brings the golden morning closer to you. The
dark night is not against the dawn, the dark night is the womb for the dawn.
The dawn is getting ready in the very being of the dark night.
Think of doubt and trust as complementary: just as man and woman are,
just as night and day, summer and winter, life and death. Always think of
those pairs in terms of inevitable complementariness, never think in terms
of opposition. Even though on the surface they seem to be opposed, deep
down they are friends, helping each other. Think of a person who has no
trust: he will not have any doubt either, because he has nothing to doubt
about. Just think of a person who has no trust at all—how can he doubt,
what has he to doubt? Only a man of trust has something to doubt. Because

you trust, hence you doubt. Your doubt proves your trust, not otherwise.
Think of a person who cannot doubt—how can he trust? If he is even
incapable of doubt, how can he be capable of trust?
Trust is the highest form of the same energy as doubt. Doubt is
the lowest rung of the ladder, and trust is the highest rung of the
same ladder. Use doubt, use it joyfully.
Trust is the highest form of the same energy as doubt. Doubt is the
lowest rung of the ladder, and trust is the highest rung of the same ladder.
Use doubt, use it joyfully. There is no need to feel guilty at all. It is
perfectly human and natural to feel great doubts about me sometimes, and
great doubts about what is going on here. It is perfectly human, there is
nothing extraordinary in it. If it doesn’t happen, then something seems to be
abnormal. But remember that one has to reach to the trust. Use doubt, but
don’t forget the goal, don’t forget the highest rung of the ladder. Even if you
are standing on the lowest, look at the highest. You have to reach there. In
fact, doubt is pushing you toward that because nobody can feel at ease with
doubt.
Have you not watched it? When there is doubt there is uneasiness. Don’t
change that uneasiness, don’t interpret that uneasiness as guilt. Yes,
uneasiness is there because doubt means you are uncertain of the ground
you are standing on. Doubt means you are ambiguous, doubt means you are
not yet a unity. How can you be at ease? You are a crowd; you are not one
person, you are many persons. How can you be at ease? There must be
great noise inside you, one part pulling you in this direction and another
part in that direction. How can you grow if you are pulled in so many
directions simultaneously? There is bound to be unease, tension, anguish,
anxiety.

Nobody can live with doubt and in doubt. Doubt pushes you toward
trust. Doubt says, “Go and find a place where you can relax, where you can
be, totally.” Doubt is your friend. It simply says, “This is not the home. Go
ahead, search, seek, inquire.” It creates the urge to inquire, to explore.
Once you start seeing doubt as a friend, as an occasion not against trust
but pushing you toward it, suddenly guilt disappears. There is great joy.
Even when you doubt, you doubt joyously, you doubt consciously, and you
use doubt to find trust. It is absolutely normal.
FAITH IS GIVEN, TRUST IS A GROWTH
The so-called religious people have never trusted human nature. They talk
about trust, but they have never trusted existence. They trust rules, laws;
they never trust love. They talk about God, but the talk is just empty talk.
They trust in the police, in the courts. They trust in hellfire. They trust in
creating fear and in creating greed. If you are saintly and good and moral,
you will have heaven and all the pleasures of paradise, firdaus. Or, if you
are not moral, then you will suffer hellfire—and eternally, remember,
forever and forever.
These are fear and greed. They have been manipulating the human mind
through fear and greed. They want you to become free of fear and greed—
and their whole teaching is rooted in it! They don’t trust.
*   *   *
BELIEF IS FROM THE HEAD, TRUST IS FROM THE HEART. Their qualities are
different, altogether different, diametrically opposite. Never become part of
a belief system: never become a Hindu or a Mohammedan or a Jaina or a

Buddhist. When you become part of a belief system, you are becoming a
slave.
Doubt and belief are not different; they are two sides of the same coin.
This has to be understood first, because people think that when they believe
they have gone beyond doubt.
Belief is the same as doubt because both are mind concerns. Your mind
argues, says no, finds no proof to enable you to say yes—so you doubt.
Then your mind finds arguments to say yes, proof to say yes, and you
believe. But in both cases you believe in reason; in both cases you believe
in arguments. The difference is just on the surface: deep down, you believe
in the reasoning.
Trust is dropping out of reasoning. It is mad, it is irrational, it is absurd!
And remember, trust is not faith. Trust is a personal encounter. Faith is
again given and borrowed, it is a conditioning. Faith is a conditioning that
your parents, your culture, and your society give you. You don’t bother
about it, you don’t make it a personal concern. It is a given thing—and that
which is given, which has not been a personal growth in you, is just a
façade. It is a false face, a Sunday face. On six days you are one way, and
then you enter church and you put on a mask. See how people behave in
church—so gently, so humanly … the same people! Even a murderer comes
to church and prays, and you can see his face: it looks so beautiful and
innocent, and this man has killed people. In church you have a proper face
to use, and you know how to use it. It has been a conditioning. From the
very childhood it has been given to you.
Faith is given, trust is a growth.
When you cannot understand, when you are ignorant, the whole society
says, “Have faith.” I will say to you that it is better to doubt than to have a
false faith. It is better to doubt, because doubt will create misery. Faith is a

consolation; doubt will create misery. And if there is misery, you will have
to seek trust.
This is the problem, the dilemma that has happened in the world.
Because of faith, you have forgotten how to seek trust. Because of faith,
you have become trustless. Because of faith you carry corpses—you are
Christians, Hindus, Mohammedans, and you miss the whole point. Because
of faith you think you are religious. Then the inquiry stops.
Honest doubt is better than dishonest faith. If your faith is false … and
all faith is false if you have not grown into it, if it is not your feeling and
your being and your experience. All faith is false!
Your faith is false: doubt is hidden deep down; just on the surface,
a whitewash of faith is there.
Be honest—doubt, suffer. Only suffering will bring you to
understanding. If you suffer truly, one day or another you will understand
that it is doubt that is making you suffer. And then the transformation
becomes possible.
Your faith is false: doubt is hidden deep down; just on the surface, a
whitewash of faith is there. Deep down you are doubtful, but you are afraid
to know that you are doubtful so you go on clinging to faith; you go on
making gestures of faith. You can make gestures, but through gestures you
cannot attain to reality. You can go and bow down in a shrine—you are
making the gesture of a person who trusts—but you will not grow, because
deep down there is no trust, only doubt. Faith is just superimposed.
It is just like kissing a person you don’t love. From the outside
everything is the same, you are making the gesture of kissing. No scientist
can find any difference. If you kiss a person, the photograph, the
physiological phenomenon, the transfer of millions of germs from one lip to

another, everything is exactly the same whether you love or not. If a
scientist watches and observes, what will be the difference? No difference,
not even a single iota of difference—the scientist will say both are kisses
and exactly the same. But you know that when you love a person, then
something of the invisible passes between you that cannot be detected by
any instrument. When you don’t love a person, then you can give the kiss
but nothing passes between you. No energy communication, no communion
happens.
The same is with faith and trust. Trust is a kiss with love, with a deeply
loving heart, and faith is a kiss without any love.
So, from where to begin? The first thing is to inquire into the doubt.
Throw out the false faith. Become an honest doubter, sincere. Your sincerity
will help, because if you are honest how can you miss the point that doubt
creates suffering? If you are sincere, you are bound to know. Sooner or later
you will come to realize that doubt has been creating more misery: the more
you go into doubt, the more misery. And one grows only through misery.
When you come to a point where misery becomes impossible to
tolerate, intolerable, you drop it. Not that really you drop it; the very
intolerability becomes the drop. And once you have suffered through it and
there is no doubt, you start moving toward trust.
*   *   *
WHENEVER YOU ARE TRUSTING, YOU WILL BE RELAXED. And whenever you
allow any doubt, you will become tense in the heart—because the heart
relaxes with trust and shrinks with doubt.
Ordinarily people are not aware of it. In fact they continuously remain
shrunken and contracted at the heart, so they have forgotten how it feels to

be relaxed there. Knowing no opposite, they think that everything is okay.
But out of one hundred persons, ninety-nine live with a contracted heart.
The more you are in the head, the more the heart contracts. When you
are not in the head, the heart opens like a lotus flower  … and it is
tremendously beautiful when it opens. Then you are really alive, and the
heart is relaxed. But the heart can only be relaxed in trust, in love. With
suspicion, with doubt, the mind enters. Doubt is the door of the mind.
It is like bait—you go fishing and you put out bait—doubt is the bait for
the mind. Once you are caught in doubt, you are caught with the mind. So
when doubt comes, it is not worth it.
I’m not saying that your doubt is always wrong; that I’m not saying. I’m
the last person to say that. Your doubt may be perfectly right. But then too it
is wrong, because it destroys your heart. It is not worth it.
For example, you are staying in a strange room with somebody, a
stranger, and you have doubts as to whether he is a thief or unreliable. Is it
okay to sleep with this man in the room? Even if he is a robber or even if he
is a murderer, then too the doubt is not worthwhile. It is better to die in trust
than to live in doubt. It is better to be robbed in trust than to become a
millionaire in doubt. A person who robs your riches robs nothing. But if
you doubt, you lose your heart.
It is better to be robbed in trust than to become a millionaire in
doubt. A person who robs your riches robs nothing. But if you
doubt, you lose your heart.
So when I say trust, I don’t mean that trust will always prove right; I’m
not saying that. Many times trust will put you into many difficult situations,
because the more you trust, the more vulnerable you become. And the more
you trust, the more you become a victim of people who are ready to

deceive. They want trusting people, otherwise they will not be able to
deceive anybody. But still, I say, be deceived. That is not as costly as being
doubtful. If one has to choose, and there are only two alternatives—to be
deceived or to be doubtful—it is better to be deceived. Once this is decided,
then doubt cannot catch you.
Doubt is powerful because it gives you cleverness. Doubt is powerful
because it says to you, “You will be unprotected—I will protect you.” The
doubt says, “I am not against trust—trust, but first observe. First be
doubtful, and then trust. When you are convinced that there is no possibility
of being deceived, then trust.”
Doubt never says, “I am against trust.” No, doubt always says, “In fact I
am trying to help you to find someone to trust. I am just a servant to you. If
you listen to me, you will be able to find somebody whom you can trust.”
But you will never find the right person, because once you have become
accustomed to doubt, it is a chronic thing. Even if you come face-to-face
with God you will continue doubting. It has nothing to do with the person
outside—it is just that you have a habit. You cannot relax it immediately. If
you have been protecting it and watching it and feeding it for your whole
life, you cannot just put it aside.
Many times trust will create very insecure situations, will lead you on
dangerous paths. You will become more vulnerable, will be easily cheated
and deceived. But still I say that whatsoever the cost, trust is the only
treasure to be protected. And when you understand this, your heart will
immediately show you if something is going wrong with your system. You
will be able to feel trust and doubt, and their impact on you.
Whenever you feel that something is contracting in the heart,
immediately look inside—doubt has arisen somewhere. Somewhere, you
have lost contact with your trust. Somewhere you are no longer in tune with

life; you have become separate. Doubt separates—trust unites. And when
you are united the heart flows well, in a rhythm, harmonious.
That’s what I call being holy. To be in the heart, and the heart flowering,
that’s what a holy man is. To be in the head—calculating, clever—is to be
unholy.
TRUST CANNOT BE CULTIVATED
The hypocrite is the most immoral person there is, because he pretends one
thing and he is something else. He has a face to show to people and a
different reality hiding behind. He lives through masks. He has destroyed
the natural, the spontaneous, because he believes in cultivation, in
“civilizing.” He believes that people should be forced to be good.
Now, there is no way to force anybody to be good. In fact, if you force
anybody to be good you are forcing him to be bad—if he has any guts he
will rebel against you. If he has any intelligence he will react against you,
he will become just the opposite of what you wanted him to be.
Unless obedience comes from your inner being, out of love and trust, it
is ugly. But when it comes from within your heart, it is not obedience at all
—you are not following anybody else, you are following yourself.
*   *   *
A CULTIVATED TRUST WILL NOT BE TRUST; it will be false, it will be insincere. It
will just be on the surface; it will never touch your center. Whatsoever is
cultivated remains superficial, because whatsoever is cultivated remains of
the mind. Trust cannot be cultivated, just as love cannot be cultivated: you
can’t teach people how to love. Dangerous will be the days when people are

taught how to love, because they will learn the lesson, they will repeat it
accurately—it will be technological but it will not be of the heart.
Anything that belongs to the depth has to come out of its own accord.
Then what to do? The only thing that can be done is to remove hindrances.
Trust cannot be brought out; hindrances can be removed. When there is no
hindrance, it comes, it flows. Trust cannot be cultivated; doubts can be
dropped.
So one has to understand the doubting mind, the very mechanism of
doubt, why you doubt. One has to see through and through why one doubts,
because doubt is the hindrance. When doubt disappears, suddenly trust is
there. It has always been there. Only a rock was hindering the path, and the
fountain could not flow. You come with trust. Every child is born with trust,
every child is trusting, so trust need not be cultivated. That’s how
everybody is born: it is inbuilt. You are trust.
But by and by, the child learns how to doubt. We teach, in fact—the
society, the family, the school, the university, they all teach how to doubt.
Because unless you doubt, you cannot be very clever and cunning; unless
you doubt, you cannot be left in this great world of competition: you will be
destroyed. So doubt has to be learned; and once you learn it, by and by,
trust is forgotten. It remains deep within you, but you cannot reach to it—
too many obstacles. You cannot cultivate it; it cannot be taught. The only
thing is, you have to reverse the process—you have learned doubt, now
unlearn it.
Trust was there, trust is there, trust will be there. All that has to be done
is to be done with doubt; nothing is to be done with trust. Why do you
doubt? Why are you so afraid?—because doubt means fear. Whenever you
love somebody, you don’t doubt, because fear disappears. Whenever there
is love, fear is not. But when you don’t love, you doubt; when you don’t

know a person, you doubt more—a stranger, then you doubt even more;
unfamiliar, unknown, then you doubt more. Whenever there is fear, there is
doubt. Deep down, doubt is fear. If you go still deeper, doubt is death,
because you are afraid of death. And it seems that everybody is trying to
kill you—fighting, everybody competitive, everybody trying to push you
aside, dethrone you. Doubt is death.
The whole mechanism has to be understood. Then what to do? Why is
one afraid of death? You have never known death. You may have seen
somebody else dying, but you have never seen death. When somebody is
dying, do you really know that he is dying, or is he simply disappearing into
some other world? Doubt is without base; fear is without base—it is just an
assumption of the mind. When somebody dies, do you think he is dying, or
simply disappearing into another world, moving to another plane of life, or
to another body? You will have to know it in deep meditation. When
thinking stops, suddenly you see that you are separate from the body.
I teach meditation, because meditation doesn’t require trust as a
basic necessity. Meditation is a science, not a superstition.
So I don’t say trust first; I say meditate first. That is the difference
between meditation and prayer. People who teach prayer, they say, “Trust
first, otherwise how can you pray?” Trust is needed as a basic condition,
otherwise how can you pray? If you don’t trust God, how can you pray? I
teach meditation, because meditation doesn’t require trust as a basic
necessity. Meditation is a science, not a superstition. Meditation says you
experiment with your mind—it is too full of thoughts; thoughts can be
dispersed, the clouds can be dispersed, and you can attain to an empty sky
of your inner being. And it needs no trust—just a little courage, a little
effort, a little daring, a little persistence and perseverance, a little patience,

yes, but no trust. You don’t believe in God? That is not a hindrance to
meditation. You don’t believe in a soul? That is not a hindrance in
meditation. You don’t believe at all? That is not an obstacle. You can
meditate, because meditation simply says how to go withinward: whether
there is a soul or not doesn’t matter; whether there is a God or not doesn’t
matter.
One thing is certain: that you are. Whether you will be after death, or
not, does not matter. Only one thing matters: right this moment, you are.
Who are you? To enter into it is meditation: to go deeper into your own
being. Maybe it is just momentary; maybe you are not eternal; maybe death
finishes everything: we don’t make any condition that you have to believe.
We say only that you have to experiment. Just try. One day it happens:
thoughts are not there, and suddenly when thoughts disappear, the body and
you are separate, because thoughts are the bridge. Through thoughts you are
joined with the body; it is the link. Suddenly the link disappears—you are
there, the body is there, and there is an infinite abyss between the two. Then
you know that the body will die, but you cannot die.
Then it is not something like a dogma; it is not a creed, it is an
experience, self-evident. On that day, death disappears; on that day, doubt
disappears, because now you are not always to be defending yourself.
Nobody can destroy you; you are indestructible. Then trust arises,
overflows. And to be in trust is to be in ecstasy; to be in trust is to be in
God; to be in trust is to be fulfilled.
I don’t say cultivate trust. I say experiment with meditation.
So I don’t say cultivate trust. I say experiment with meditation. From
another angle try to understand it. Doubt means thinking. The more you
doubt, the more you can think. All great thinkers are skeptical—have to be.

Skepticism creates thinking. When you say no, then thinking arises; if you
say yes, finished—there is no need to think. When you say no, then you
have to think. Thinking is negative. Doubt is a basic necessity for thinking.
People who cannot doubt, cannot think; they cannot become great thinkers.
So, more doubt means more thinking, more thinking means more doubt.
Meditation is a way to come out of thinking. Once the clouds of thoughts
are not there, and the process of thinking ceases, even for a single moment,
you have a glimpse of your being.
One of the greatest thinkers in the West, Descartes, has said, “I think,
therefore I am.” Cogito ergo sum. And Descartes is the father of modern
Western philosophy: “I think, therefore I am.” Just the opposite has been the
experience in the East. Buddha, Nagarjuna, Sankara, Lao Tzu, Chuang Tzu,
they will laugh, they will laugh tremendously when they hear Descartes’
dictum, “I think, therefore I am”; because they say, “I don’t think, therefore
I am.” Because when thinking ceases, only then does one know who one is.
In a nonthinking state of consciousness one realizes one’s being, not by
thinking, but by nonthinking. Meditation is nonthinking; it is an effort to
create a state of no-mind. Doubt is mind. In fact, to say “doubting mind” is
wrong, it is repetitive. Mind is doubt; doubt is mind. When doubt ceases,
mind ceases; or when mind ceases, doubt ceases. And then self-evident
truth arises within, a pinnacle of light, eternity, timelessness; and then there
is trust.
Right now how can you trust? Right now you don’t know who you are
—how can you trust? And you ask, “Can trust be cultivated?” Never. Never
try to cultivate it. Many have done that foolishness. Then they become
false, inauthentic, pseudo. It is better to be a naysayer, but sincere, because
there is at least a possibility, through sincerity, that someday you may

become an authentic yea-sayer. But never say yes until it arises from within
and overwhelms you.
The whole world is full of pseudo-religious people: churches, temples,
gurdwaras, mosques full of religious people. And can’t you see the world is
absolutely irreligious? With so many religious people, and the world is so
irreligious, how is this miracle happening? Everybody is religious, and the
total is irreligiousness. The religion is false. People have cultivated trust.
Trust has become a belief, not an experience. They have been taught to
believe; they have not been taught to know—that’s where humanity has
missed. Never believe. If you cannot trust, it is better to doubt, because
through doubt, some day or other, the possibility will arise … because you
cannot live with doubt eternally. Doubt is disease; it is an illness. In doubt
you can never feel fulfilled; in doubt you will always tremble, in doubt you
will always remain in anguish and divided and indecisive. In doubt you will
remain in a nightmare; so one day or other you will start seeking how to go
beyond it. So I say it is good to be an atheist rather than a theist, a pseudo-
theist.
All beliefs are borrowed; others have given them to you. They are
not your flowerings. And how can a borrowed thing lead you
toward the real, the absolutely real?
You have been taught to believe. From the very childhood, everybody’s
mind has been conditioned to believe: believe in God, believe in the soul,
believe in this and believe in that. Now that belief has entered into your
bones and your blood, but it remains a belief: you have not known. And
unless you know, you cannot be liberated. Knowledge liberates; only
knowing liberates. All beliefs are borrowed; others have given them to you.
They are not your flowerings. And how can a borrowed thing lead you

toward the real, the absolutely real? Drop all that you have taken from
others. It is better to be a beggar than to be rich, rich not by your own
earning but rich through stolen goods; rich through borrowed things, rich
through tradition, rich through heritage. No, it is better to be a beggar but to
be on one’s own. That poverty has a richness in it because it is true, and
your richness of belief is very poor. Those beliefs can never go very deep;
they remain skin-deep at the most. Scratch a little, and the disbelief comes
out.
You believe in God. Then your business fails, and suddenly, the
disbelief is there. You say, “I don’t believe, I cannot believe in God.” You
believe in God, and your beloved dies, and the disbelief comes up. You
believe in God, and just by the death of your beloved the belief is
destroyed? It is not worth much. Trust can never be destroyed—once it is
there, nothing can destroy it; nothing, absolutely nothing can destroy it.
So remember, there is a great difference between trust and belief. Trust
is personal; belief is social. Trust you have to grow in; belief you can
remain in, whatsoever you are, and belief can be imposed on you. Drop
beliefs. The fear will be there; because if you drop belief, doubt arises. Each
belief is forcing doubt somewhere, repressing doubt. Don’t be worried
about it; let the doubt come. Everybody has to pass through a dark night
before he reaches the sunrise. Everybody has to pass through doubt. Long is
the journey, dark is the night. But when after the long journey and the dark
night the morning arises, then you know it was all worthwhile. Trust cannot
be cultivated. And never try to cultivate it—that is what has been done by
the whole of humanity.
Cultivated trust becomes belief. Discover it within yourself, don’t
cultivate it. Go deeper into your being, to the very source of your being, and
discover it.

WORTHY AND UNWORTHY
It is not a question of whether you trust in God or you trust in Jesus or in
Buddha—remember it. If you trust, you simply trust. If a Christian says, “I
trust only in Jesus, not in Buddha,” he has not known what trust is, because
trust knows no distinctions. If you have trusted in Christ you will trust in
Buddha too, because you will not see any difference. Maybe the languages
are different, maybe their ways of expression are different, but trust will be
able to go directly to the heart of the matter, to the very core, and will see
that Christ and Buddha exist on the same plane. It is the same
consciousness, the same awareness, the same enlightenment. If you trust
Buddha, you will trust Krishna and Mohammed. If you trust me, you will
trust Christ, you will trust Zarathustra.
Trust knows no address. It is not addressed. Trust is an inner quality. If
it is there, it is there. It is like you bring a light, you bring a lamp into the
room. Now the light will not fall only on the table, it will fall on the chair
too. And it will not fall only on the chair, it will fall on the walls too, and on
the paintings hanging on the walls.
It will not fall only on the walls, it will fall on the floor and on the roof
too. When you bring light into the room, light simply falls on everything
that is there. So is trust. It is a light. If trust is kindled in your heart, then it
makes no difference. You trust God, you trust Christ, you trust your wife,

you trust your husband, you trust your son, you trust your friend. You trust
your enemy. You trust nature, you trust death, you trust insecurity. In short,
you simply trust.
BLESSED ARE THE FOOLS
At the very center of our being is light. As we go away from the center
toward the circumference, darkness deepens. The further away we go from
ourselves, the more we are in darkness; the closer we come to ourselves, the
more we are in light.
My whole effort here is to help you see that the real is sacred, that this
very world is sacred, that this very life is divine. But the way to see it is first
to inquire within. Unless you start feeling the source of light within yourself,
you will not be able to see that light anywhere else. First it has to be
experienced within one’s own being, then it is found everywhere. Then the
whole existence becomes so full of light, so full of joy, so full of meaning
and poetry that each moment one feels grateful.
*   *   *
THERE IS A DEEP NATURAL URGE TO BE HEALTHY AND WHOLE; there is a deep
urge to be trusting; there is a deep urge to say yes. Have you watched?
Whenever you say yes a certain freedom immediately bursts in you;
whenever you say no you shrink. Whenever you say no you are left alone,
cut off from the world. Whenever you say yes a bridge immediately starts
spreading toward existence. Say yes and you are related to the world, to
existence. Say no and you are cut off, unrelated.
Hate is no; love is yes. Money is no; prayer is yes. People who are
doubters, skeptical, go on accumulating money because they cannot trust

life. They feel so insecure with life that they find security in money, in
something dead.
Hate is no; love is yes. Money is no; prayer is yes. People who
are doubters, skeptical, go on accumulating money because they
cannot trust life.
People who love, and who have loved tremendously, loved abundantly
—loved totally and said yes to life in all the ways life demands, challenges,
people who have always been ready to say yes—they don’t gather money.
There is no need.
Life is such a security. In its deepest insecurity, there is security. In its
deepest challenge there is love; in its deepest hardship there is growth. Once
you have said yes, you are in a let-go; you have become religious.
*   *   *
THE MORE OPEN YOU BECOME, THE MORE INNOCENT, the more childlike you
become, the more the winds of existence start flowing in and out of you.
The more you are knowing and have the gesture of knowledge, the more
you are closed. Then you don’t allow the winds of existence to enter you,
then you are always distrustful, you don’t trust life.
A fool is one who goes on trusting; a fool is one who goes on trusting
against all his experience. You deceive him, and he trusts you; and you
deceive him again, and he trusts you; and you deceive him again, and he
trusts you. Then you will say that he is a fool, he does not learn. His trust is
tremendous; his trust is so pure that nobody can corrupt it.
Be a fool in the Taoist sense, in the Zen sense. Don’t try to create a wall
of knowledge around you. Whatever experience comes to you, let it happen

—and then go on dropping it. Go on cleaning your mind continuously; go
on dying to the past so you remain in the present, herenow, as if just born,
just a babe.
In the beginning it is going to be very difficult. The world will start
taking advantage of you—let them, they are poor fellows. Even if you are
cheated and deceived and robbed, let it happen, because that which is really
yours cannot be robbed from you. That which is really yours, nobody can
steal from you. And each time you don’t allow situations to corrupt you,
that opportunity will become an integration inside. Your soul will become
more crystallized.
I have heard:
A thief visited the house of a Sufi mystic at night, and spread his
shawl to wrap up the loot. After a long search he had not found
anything. In the meantime the dervish sleeping on the floor had
rolled over onto the shawl. When the thief came to pick up his shawl,
he saw the dervish sleeping on it.
Just as he was leaving empty-handed, the dervish woke up and
called after him, “Please shut the front door.”
“Why should I?” the thief answered, “I came and supplied your
mattress, someone else might come and bring your blanket too.”
So remain open, don’t be worried—even a thief cannot steal anything
from you. He may supply a mattress or a blanket, that is another matter. He
may give something to you, but he cannot take anything from you because
that which can be taken is not yours.
That which cannot be taken—only that is yours. Be a fool.
Zen is the effort of dropping the mind, destructuring it so that your
innocence that has become hidden behind the structure reveals itself again.

You were born without knowing anything. You were born with clear eyes
with no thoughts in them, with no clouds. Your inner sky was pure. Then
you were taught, conditioned, a thousand and one things, and you became
cluttered with knowledge—from the school, the college, the university, and
life’s experiences. And you were taught how to doubt—because doubt is the
intelligence of the worldly man. Trust is the intelligence of the religious
man.
You were taught to doubt, trained to doubt, but because of doubt you
became closed. A man who doubts cannot remain open; a man who doubts
always feels insecure. A man who doubts always thinks about the world as
if it is the enemy; the man who doubts is constantly fighting.
Doubt is the intelligence of the worldly man. Trust is the
intelligence of the religious man.
That fight is going to end in your defeat, because the part cannot win
over the whole. That’s not possible, so you are fighting a doomed fight. You
are going to be defeated finally. You may have small victories here and
there, but they don’t count. Finally death comes, and all is taken away. And
in this fight you could not enjoy, you could not delight in life.
To delight in life one needs to be a fool, trusting. Read Dostoyevsky’s
The Idiot. The main character in The Idiot is a Zen character, a Tao
character, a prince who is foolish, totally foolish. But his doors are open, he
is not in any way fighting the world. He is relaxed.
All tensions gather in you because of doubt, all tensions make their
abode in your being because of fear, insecurity. You are just a small wave in
the ocean, but you are afraid of the ocean and you are trying to fight with
the ocean—you will simply waste an opportunity which could have become

a celebration, which could have become festive. The same energy which
could have laughed is turned sour and bitter and becomes poisonous.
To be alive … when I say “to be alive” I mean to be alive in the whole
spectrum of life—alive to cry and alive to laugh, alive to weep and alive to
love, the whole spectrum. I see thousands of people living half-heartedly.
They have chosen a certain color of the spectrum, and they have narrowed
down their being. Now they are missing, they are missing much—because
you can enjoy life only when you are a rainbow. Laughter is possible only if
one is able to cry and weep deeply. The child cries—that is the first
relationship with the world. Every child born cries first. That is the first
rung of the ladder.
A fool is one who lives the whole rainbow—he cries, tears are flowing
from his eyes, he is not blocked in any way. He can cry in the marketplace.
He is not ashamed of life: unashamedly he lives, and lives totally—that’s
why he is a fool, or thought to be a fool. He laughs, and he delights—he is a
rainbow. And godliness comes only to those who are like a rainbow.
Blessed are the fools.
A QUALITY, NOT A RELATIONSHIP
If you trust yourself you trust all, because you trust life. You trust even those
who will deceive you, but that is irrelevant. That is their problem; it is not
your problem. Whether they deceive you or they don’t deceive you, it has
nothing to do with your trust. If you say, “My trust exists only with a
condition that nobody tries to deceive me,” then your trust cannot exist
because every possibility will create a certain hesitation in you: “Who
knows?—the person may deceive me.” How can you see the future? The
deception will happen in the future, if it happens. Or if it does not happen,
that too is in the future—and trust has to be herenow.

*   *   *
TRUST SHOULD NOT BE DEPENDENT ON THE TRUSTWORTHINESS OF OTHERS. Trust
should be a quality in you, not a relationship.
You trust somebody because he is trustworthy—this is not trust. There is
no dignity in it, there is no glory in it. “He is trustworthy” so you have to
trust him.
Trust is a quality; whether the other is trustworthy or not, whether the
other deceives you or not, it should not make any difference in your trust.
Your joy should be in trusting itself. It should be intrinsic; it should not be
dependent on the other.
I have heard that a man was brought for the tenth time into court.
The magistrate said, “You should be ashamed. You have been
brought before me ten times! And just look at who you have
cheated, the most innocent man in the town.”
The criminal said, “My Lord, if I don’t cheat the innocent then
who am I going to cheat? The innocent are the easiest to cheat—
what do you want me to do, cheat people who are not innocent?”
The magistrate said, “You seem to be very cunning, distorting
what I am saying.”
The man said, “My Lord, you said that I should be ashamed that
I have been brought ten times before you in the court. This is not my
fault! Tell these policemen, these idiots who go on catching me! I
told them that the magistrate would be annoyed, that there is no
point in bringing me back to the court again and again, but nobody
listens.”

If you are trusting, people are going to cheat you. And naturally, when a
few people have cheated you, your trust in humanity disappears.
That is very strange: five persons have cheated you, and five billion
people on the Earth lose your trust? You should just try to understand a little
arithmetic. And the people who have cheated you, what can they gain?
Perhaps some money. But if you can still trust them, you have gained
something which no money can buy.
I used to travel in trains continually. Once, from Indore to Khandwa,
I had arrived and there was a one-hour gap before the other train that
I had to catch for Mumbai. So I was sitting in the compartment
alone; the other passengers had left, it was the last stop for that train.
One man came, tears in his eyes. I said, “Just wipe your tears and
tell me the story.”
He said, “Story?”
I said, “Whatever it is—it may be real, unreal—just tell me the
story.”
He said, “My mother has died.”
I said, “I knew it!” and I gave him one rupee.
He said, “I need it. I am very thankful. Nobody gives
nowadays.” He went away, but he must have thought, “This man
seems to be very gullible. He gave me one rupee without inquiring
in detail.” He simply put on a coat and a cap and came back again.
I said, “Where are the tears?”
He said, “What tears?”
I said, “You are another person, but what is the story?”
He said this time, “My father has died.”
I said, “You take one rupee, because I give one rupee to anybody
who brings a story—mother died, father died, soon somebody will

come and his wife has died, somebody will come and his child has
died. There is one hour’s time, and I have enough money for one
hour. Just go, go fast!”
He said, “Why fast?”
I said, “You will have to change clothes. Just go.”
He said, “My God, have you recognized me?”
I said, “No, I have not recognized you. How can I recognize
you? The cap, the coat, so new! I have never before seen you in the
coat, in the cap. And your relatives are dying so fast, so just go.”
The third time he hesitated to come. But greed is such that he
could not resist his temptation. He put away his coat, his shirt; he
came back just with a lungi on. I said, “That is great, that fits! It is so
hot that I was worried about the shirt and coat and cap. Now who
has died?”
He said, “My God, it is strange, but it is a very unfortunate day.
You were right, my wife died.”
I said, “Take one rupee. Go home and find out if somebody else
has died. And no need to come back naked—you can just go on
wearing the lungi; otherwise the police may catch hold of you and
you might be in trouble. And,” I said, “I will be in trouble.”
He said, “Why will you be in trouble?”
“Because I am here waiting for you, waiting and waiting. If you
are caught by the police it will be a real anxiety to me: ‘What
happened to the poor guy?’ So many people have died, and I have
not even asked your name; otherwise I could come to your home.
But remember not to die yourself—otherwise who is going to come
for the rupee?”

He was really shocked. The fourth time he came with four
rupees, saying, “You take them back, I cannot accept them.”
I said, “But what happened? What will happen to your father,
your mother, your wife—they have all died. You can take more if
you want, if it is not enough.”
He said, “Nobody has died. This is just my profession. I cheat
people, but I cannot cheat you.”
I said, “Why can’t you cheat me? I am so available to be cheated.
I am just sitting here; there is no other business for me to do except
to be cheated. You need not take such a long time, just go around the
railway station and come back, take one rupee. No need from now
onward to tell me any story—just come with your hand out, and I
will understand that somebody has died.”
He said, “No, this is … nobody has died; everybody is alive. You
just take your rupees back.”
I asked him, “Why are you feeling so guilty? There is no
problem, I am enjoying the game. Sitting here, there is nothing else
to do. And you are bringing such entertainment, one rupee is not
bad.”
But he would not accept; he said, “Nobody has ever trusted me,
and you are either just crazy or I don’t know what, but you go on
trusting. Do you really believe that my wife is dead?”
I said, “I really believe it, because man is mortal, people die.
Your wife is not immortal. Don’t be worried, she will die—if she has
not died today, tomorrow she will die. Keep the rupee with you;
perhaps you are just telling the story a little ahead of time.”
He said, “I will not take any money from you, and from today I
will stop this business of telling lies to people. The whole day I have

to say, ‘My father has died, my mother has died.’ Sometimes in one
day my wife dies twelve times. You are the first person who has
believed me and is ready to believe.”
I said, “Simply go and count all the people who are alive in your
house and who are dead. For the dead you have already taken; for
the alive you can more take rupees. Someday they will die, and then
you may not be able to find me … because I am here for only one
hour, and then I will be gone.”
I used to pass through Khandwa continually, because it is a junction—
going to Nagpur, going to Indore, going to Jabalpur, going to Mumbai—and
that man would always come with some fruits, some flowers. I would say,
“This is not right, you are poor.”
He would say, “I am poor, but not so poor that I can’t see that you
cannot insult me. You cannot insult any human being, you cannot distrust.
And what can I take from you? A few rupees, but I cannot take your trust in
humanity.”
To be trusting in humanity is such a joy. It is part of being religious.
Trust everybody, including those who cheat you. They have their
difficulties; they have their problems.
And today the world is not of those old days when people used to stick
to their promises. On every step you will find people breaking promises,
going against their word, cheating you when you trusted them. But what
can they cheat? Just material things! If you lose trust, then certainly they
have destroyed you.
Trust is nonmaterial, it is spiritual. If you trust me and if you feel happy
with it, then trust the whole world—these five billion people have not
cheated you, these millions of stars have not cheated you, these trees and
oceans and rivers have not cheated you. Just a few people may have cheated

you, and because of those few people you are going to distrust existence?
This will be a loss. You will be losing your own beautiful quality.
I am in favor of trust as a quality, not as a relationship. Don’t
make it dependent on the other person, on what he does. You trust
him because he is human.
I am in favor of trust as a quality, not as a relationship. Don’t make it
dependent on the other person, on what he does. You trust him because he is
human. And human beings have their weaknesses, their frailties, their
limitations—you trust them in spite of all their weaknesses, all their
frailties, all their limitations. This trust will become a solid rock within you,
a foundation of a new being, of a new life. And perhaps if you had that
solid foundation, even those people who have been cheating you may not be
able to cheat you. Just your very being …
I was asleep in the train, and there was only one other person. I was
in the upper berth. In the middle of the night the person was getting
out of the train. It was a beautiful chance, because all my luggage
was on the floor and he saw that I was asleep. So he told his servants
to take everything. Just my money was in a pocketbook.
So when he had taken everything out, I said, “Wait!”
So he said, “Are you awake?”
I said, “I have been awake all the time. You have taken
everything; just this pocketbook is left with the money I have. Take
this too. Always do everything totally.”
He said, “My God!” He said to his servants, “Bring his things
back, he is dangerous.”

The stationmaster came running, and the driver and the
conductor, “What is the matter?” And the man was trembling in case
I told them that he was stealing everything.
I said, “It is nothing. Just by mistake he has taken everything out.
His mistake was not complete, and I am against things which are not
complete. So I was giving my money to him, telling him, ‘Take this
too, so everything is complete.’”
They said, “Should we catch hold of this man and give him to
the police?”
I said, “No, because he is a nice fellow. He didn’t accept the
money and he has brought all the things back.”
He was in such a nervous state that he left one of his bags also
with me. I had to send his bag back from the next station, telling
them, “Find this man.” At least there was a name on the bag—“So
find him.” He was really a good man. He got so nervous—perhaps it
was his first effort to steal things.
Human beings are human beings. What was he doing? Just taking a few
things that don’t belong to me, nothing belongs to anybody—but trust
belongs to you. Things don’t belong to you. So let your trust be as cosmic
as possible.
BEWARE OF KNOWLEDGE
The word agnostic comes from the word gnostic. Agnostic means one who
declares, “I am not certain this way or that.” Who is a gnostic? A gnostic is
one who knows. That is the meaning of gnostic: the knower. The agnostic is
silent because he does not know what is right and what is wrong, what is

yes, what is no. The gnostic is also silent—because he has come to
experience a reality which is inexpressible.
I am a gnostic, and I would like you all to be gnostics—to come to a
point of experience where things beyond words happen, where language is
left far away, light years back, where there is no possibility to conceptualize
your experience. You cannot say, “God is,” you cannot say, “God is not.”
You cannot even say, “I cannot say these things.” You can be simply silent.
And those who can understand silence will understand the answer.
*   *   *
THERE IS A VERY SIGNIFICANT DISTINCTION TO BE MADE between knowledge
and knowing. Knowledge only appears to know—it knows not. Knowing
may not appear to know—but it knows. Knowledge is borrowed, knowing
is one’s own. Knowledge is verbal, knowing is through living. Knowledge
is information gathered from here and there.
The man of knowledge claims that he knows, and the man of
knowing does not even know that he knows. The man of knowing
is innocent.
Knowing is existential: you have lived it. It has come through your very
experience. It is an experience. When knowing happens you are freed, you
are liberated. Through knowledge you become more of a prisoner.
Knowledge binds. Knowing liberates.
The paradox is that the man of knowledge claims that he knows, and the
man of knowing does not even know that he knows. The man of knowing is
innocent.

There is a very famous mystic treatise in the West—the only one in the
West; nobody knows who wrote it, nobody knows from whom it came, but
it must have come from a tremendous experience. The name of the treatise
is The Cloud of Unknowing. It is from a man of knowing, but he calls it The
Cloud of Unknowing. He says, “When I came to know, I forgot all
knowledge; all knowledge disappeared.”
There is no need for knowledge when you know. When you don’t know,
you cling to knowledge—because only through that knowledge can you
pretend to know. When you know, you can forget knowledge. When you
don’t know, how can you afford to forget it? So only the greatest knowers
have been able to forget knowledge. That is the peak, and it has to be
remembered.
Become men of knowing—become clouds of unknowing, which is the
same thing in other words. Knowing is almost like unknowing, because in
knowing there is no knower—the ego does not exist. In knowledge there is
a division—the division of the known and the knower, the division of the
subject and the object. In knowing there is no division. Knowing is not
divisive. It is unitive, it unites.
Science is a sort of knowledge. Religion is a sort of knowing or
unknowing. Hence their paths never cross anywhere, and they never will
cross. Where science ends, religion begins. Where cunningness ends,
innocence begins. Where the knower disappears, knowing comes in.
*   *   *
IN THE BIBLICAL STORY OF ADAM’S EXPULSION there is something to be
understood in this context. The story is so beautiful that I come to it again
and again with different meanings, with different interpretations.

God said to Adam: “You can enjoy all the fruits of this garden, but there
are two trees—one is called the Tree of Life, the other is called the Tree of
Knowledge—please never eat from the Tree of Knowledge.”
He mentions two trees, the Tree of Life and the Tree of Knowledge. He
says nothing about the Tree of Life, he simply says, “Don’t eat from the
Tree of Knowledge.”
But Adam was so curious—hence the serpent could persuade him,
otherwise the serpent would not have been persuasive, would not have
succeeded. Deep down, Adam must have been curious about it—as every
child is, and Adam was the first child, and God was the first father. Adam
was persuaded to eat from the Tree of Knowledge.
He ate, and he became a knower. Immediately he felt ashamed,
immediately he felt naked. Up to then he was innocent—the innocence was
primordial, absolute, unconditional. He was not aware that he was naked. In
fact, he was not aware even that he was. The ego entered—from the fruit of
the Tree of Knowledge, ego is created.
Adam became alert: he started judging whether he was beautiful or not,
whether it was good to be naked or not; he became aware of his body. For
the first time he became self-conscious. Up to then, he had not been self-
conscious. Not that he was not conscious—he was conscious, but there was
no “self” in it. The consciousness was pure, unobstructed. The
consciousness was just a pure light. But suddenly the ego stood like a pillar
in the middle of consciousness, a dark pillar, a pillar of darkness.
And the story says that Adam was expelled.
In fact, God need not have expelled him. Adam had expelled himself
through eating the fruit from the Tree of Knowledge.
Knowledge is expulsion. The moment you become aware of your ego,
you are expelled from the beauty, from the benediction, from the delight,

from the joy that life has to offer to you.
Now, what happened to the other tree, the Tree of Life? Nothing is said
about it. My own interpretation is that if Adam had eaten first from the Tree
of Life and then from the Tree of Knowledge, there would have been no
expulsion. If knowledge had come through living, if knowledge had come
through experience, there would have been no expulsion. Adam’s
knowledge was bogus; it had not come through his own experience—it was
unearned, it was immature; hence the expulsion. It was borrowed, it was not
his own.
When knowledge comes through experience, it liberates. It makes you
more joyous, it makes you more delighted with existence. If Adam had
eaten first the fruit of the Tree of Life and then the fruit of the Tree of
Knowledge, there would have been no expulsion from the Garden of Eden.
Adam reversed the process: he ate from the Tree of Knowledge first. And
once you eat from the Tree of Knowledge, you start losing life. Then you
cannot eat from the Tree of Life, so the expulsion is self-imposed.
Remember it: knowledge can come in two ways. You can have it from
others—from books, from people, from the society—and you can claim it
as yours. But then you are expelled from the Garden of Eden. And
remember the expulsion is self-imposed, nobody else is expelling you. Your
very wrong approach to knowing becomes a barrier. But knowledge can be
attained through another way—that is through experience, through life.
Eat the fruit of the Tree of Life first, and then knowledge comes
silently. Without even any whisper, it arises in your soul.
Eat the fruit of the Tree of Life first, and then knowledge comes silently.
Without even any whisper, it arises in your soul.

*   *   *
THERE IS ANOTHER PARABLE IN THE BIBLE that when God created the world he
asked Adam to name things. He would bring the lion and ask Adam, “What
name do you give to this animal?” He would bring the elephant and ask,
“What name do you give to this animal?” And Adam named all things, and
since then man has been doing the same.
All your knowledge is nothing but labeling, naming. If you ask
somebody, “Do you know this flower?” and he says, “Yes, I know it is a
rose,” what does he know? Just the name. What else do you know? By
knowing the name rose do you know the rose? By knowing the word God
do you know God? By knowing the name love do you know love? That
parable is also beautiful. Adam was foolish enough. He should have said,
“No, how can I name? I don’t know these things.” But he named—the
elephant, the rose, the lion, the tiger—and since then, that’s what man has
been doing continuously down the ages, just naming things. If you know
the name of the person, you think you know the person. So when you
introduce people to each other you just tell them a name or a country, a
race. But what are you doing? Is the person known that way? The person is
vast, so huge, how can you label and know the person by the label? But
naming gives a false impression, as if you know.
A couple whose new home was completed very recently had hardly
moved in before the neighbors came over to inspect it. Naturally the
conversation was on the subject of the new house.
“It is very nice,” commented one visitor, “but I don’t see why
you call this type of house a bungalow.”
“Well,” explained the owner, “we just don’t know what else to
call it. The job was a bungle and we still owe for it so we call it

bungle-owe.”
One has to call it something! One has to use words, so we go on
labeling things and then we think we know. What exactly do you know? If
you drop those names that have accumulated in your mind, what is left?
Nothing, exactly, and that nothing has to be realized, because unless you
recognize that nothingness you will never move in the right direction.
The right direction is knowing, not knowledge.
TO LIVE WITHOUT BELIEF IS A GREAT DARING
The first thing you have to learn is that all that you know is not real
knowing; it is not your knowing, hence it is not real knowing. Put it aside—
it is all garbage—so that you can know. You are looking through others’
eyes—how can you see? You cannot see through my eyes; that is impossible.
You have to have your own eyes to see. And it is true not only for the outer
eyes, it is also true for the inner eyes.
Clean yourself of all borrowed information and knowledge, unburden
yourself, and then your own nature will start surfacing and a totally new
kind of wisdom happens: a great clarity and insight into things, into
problems, into life.
*   *   *
LIFE IS A MYSTERY. THE MORE YOU UNDERSTAND IT, THE MORE MYSTERIOUS IT
BECOMES. The more you know, the less you feel that you know. The more
you become aware of the depth, the infinite depth, the more it becomes
almost impossible to say anything about it. Hence silence. A man who
knows remains in such awe, such infinite wonderment, that even breathing
stops. Standing before the mystery of life, one is lost completely.

But there are problems, and the first problem with the mystery of life is
that there is always the possibility of frauds, people who can deceive others,
people who can cheat. In the world of science, that is not possible. Science
moves on a plain ground with infinite caution, logical, rational. If you utter
something nonsensical, immediately you will be caught because whatsoever
you say can be verified. Science is objective, and any assertion, any
statement, can be verified in experiments in the laboratories.
With religion everything is inner, subjective, mysterious, and the path is
not on a plain. It is a hilly track. There are many ups and many downs, and
the path moves like a spiral. Again and again you come to the same place,
maybe a little higher. And whatsoever you say cannot be verified, there is
no criterion of verification. Because it is inner, no experiment can prove or
disprove it; because it is mysterious, no logical argumentation can decide
this way or that.
That’s why science is one, but there exist almost three thousand
religions in the world. You cannot prove any religion false. Neither can you
prove any other religion to be true or authentic. That is not possible,
because no empirical test is possible.
A Buddha says that there is no self inside. How to prove this, or how to
disprove this? If somebody says, “I have seen God,” and he sounds sincere,
what to do? He may be deluded, a lunatic. He may have seen a
hallucination, or he may really have seen the reality of existence. But how
to prove or disprove it?
He cannot share his experience with anybody, it is inner. It is not like an
object you can place in the middle and everybody can watch it, and
everybody can experiment and dissect it. You have to take it in faith. He
may sound absolutely sincere and may be deluded. He may not be cheating
you, trying to cheat you, or he may be himself deceived. He may be a very

honest person but he has seen a dream and thinks it is real—sometimes
dreams have a quality such that they look more real than the reality itself.
Then dreams look like visions. He has heard the voice of God, and he is so
filled with it, so thrilled! But what to do? How to prove that he has not gone
mad, that he has not projected his own mind and ideas? There is no
possibility.
If there is one genuine religious person, there are ninety-nine others all
around him. A few of them are deluded: poor, simple fellows, good at heart,
not trying to harm anybody, but still they harm. Then there are a few cheats,
robbers, deceivers: cunning, clever people who are knowingly doing harm,
but the harm pays.
You cannot find a better business in the world than religion. You
can promise, and there is no need to deliver the goods because the
goods are invisible.
You cannot find a better business in the world than religion. You can
promise, and there is no need to deliver the goods because the goods are
invisible. When things are invisible, you can go on selling, promising.
There is no need to deliver the goods, because in the first place they are
invisible so nobody can ever detect them. So you cannot find a better
business than religion, because the goods are invisible. I have seen many
people being deceived and many people deceiving. And the thing is so
subtle that nothing can be said, for or against. This can go on because the
whole phenomenon is invisible.
What to do? How to judge? How to decide?
Religion is always dangerous. It is dangerous because the very terrain is
mysterious, irrational. Anything goes, and there is no outer way to judge it.
And there are people with their gullible minds, always ready to believe

something because they need some foothold. Without belief they feel
unanchored, uprooted; they need somebody to believe in, they need
somewhere to go and feel anchored and rooted.
Belief is a deep need in people. Why is it a deep need? Because without
belief you feel like a chaos; without belief you don’t know why you exist;
without belief you cannot feel any meaning in life. No significance seems to
be there. You feel like an accident with no reason at all to be here. Without
belief, the question arises: Why are you? Who are you? From where are you
coming? Where are you going? And there is not a single answer—without
belief there is no answer. One feels simply without any meaning, an
accident in existence, not needed at all, not indispensable. You will die and
nobody will bother; they will all continue. You feel something is lacking, a
contact with reality, a certain belief. That’s why religions exist—to supply
beliefs, because people need them.
A person without belief has to be very, very courageous. To live without
belief is to live in the unknown; to live without belief is a great daring.
Ordinary people cannot afford that. With too much daring, anguish comes
in, anxiety is created.
And this has to be noted: to me, a real religious person is without belief.
Trust he has, but not belief—and there is a vast difference between the two.
Belief is intellectual. You need it, that’s why you have it. It is there
because you cannot live without belief. Belief gives you a support to live
by; it gives you a certain meaning, howsoever false; it gives you a certain
blueprint for life, how to move, where to move. You are on the highway, not
lost in the forest. Belief gives you a commodity, there are other believers
just like you; you become a part of the crowd. Then you need not think on
your own, then you are no longer responsible for your own being and what
you are doing. Now you can throw the responsibility on the crowd.

Individuals are not bad, crowds are simply mad—because in a
crowd nobody feels responsible.
An individual Hindu is never so bad as a Hindu crowd. An individual
Mohammedan is never so bad as a Mohammedan crowd. What happens?
Individuals are not bad, crowds are simply mad—because in a crowd
nobody feels responsible. You can commit murders in a crowd easily,
because you know the crowd is doing it and you are just a wave in it. You
are not the deciding factor, so you are not responsible. Individual, alone,
you feel a responsibility. You will feel guilty if you commit something
harmful. It is my observation that sin exists through crowds, no individual
is ever a sinner. And individuals, even if they commit something wrong, can
be taken out of it very easily; but crowds are impossible because crowds
have no souls, no centers. To whom to appeal? In all that goes on in the
world—the devil, the evil forces—the crowd is in fact responsible. Nations
are the devil; religious communities are the evil forces.
Belief makes you a part of a bigger crowd than you, and there is a
feeling of elation when you are a part of something bigger—a nation, India
or America or England—then you are not just a tiny human being. A great
energy comes to you, and you feel elated. A euphoria is felt. That’s why
whenever a country is at war people feel euphoric, ecstatic. Suddenly their
life has a meaning. They exist for the country, for the religion, for the
civilization; now they have a certain goal to be achieved and a certain
treasure to be protected. Now they are no longer ordinary people, they have
a great mission.
Belief is a bridge between the individual and the crowd, and trust
is a bridge between the individual and the cosmos.

Belief is the bridge from the individual to the crowd.
Trust is totally different. Trust is not an intellectual concept. Trust is a
quality of the heart, not of the head. Belief is a bridge between the
individual and the crowd, and trust is a bridge between the individual and
the cosmos. Trust is always in God … and when I say “God,” I don’t mean
any belief in God. When I say “God,” I simply mean the whole.
Trust is a deep understanding that you are simply a part, a note in a great
symphony, just a small wave in the ocean. Trust means you have to follow
the whole, flow with the whole, be in accord with the whole. Trust means: I
am not here as an enemy, I am not here to fight. I am here to enjoy the
opportunity that has been given to me; I am here to be grateful and
celebrating. Trust is not in a doctrine: you need not be a Hindu, you need
not be a Mohammedan, you need not be a Jain or a Sikh. Trust is a
commitment between the individual and the whole. Trust makes you
religious—not Hindu, not Mohammedan, not Christian, but simply
religious.
Trust has no name. Belief makes you a Hindu, Mohammedan, Christian.
Belief has names, millions of names. There are thousands of beliefs; you
can choose. Trust has only one quality, the quality of surrender into the
whole, the quality of moving in accord with the whole, the quality of not
forcing the whole to follow you but simply allowing yourself to move with
the whole.
Trust is a transformation.
Trust is not in words, in scriptures. Trust is toward life, toward the very
energy that moves the whole. You trust it and you float with it. If it takes
you down in the whirl, you go down in the whirl. If it takes you out in the
swirl, you come out in the swirl. You move with it, you don’t have your
own mind about it. If it makes you sad, you become sad. If it makes you

happy, you become happy. You simply move with it, with no mind of your
own, and suddenly you come to realize that now you have achieved a point
where bliss is going to be eternal. In your sadness also you will be blissful,
because it is none of your business. The whole is doing it that way, and you
are moving with it. Happiness—okay. Sadness—okay. You are simply
“okay.” Everything is okayed. This is what a religious man is: he has no
mind of his own. Belief has a very strong mind of its own.
And when you are too filled with belief you can create things. You can
see things that are not there, and you can miss things that are there. A mind
that is filled with belief is a mind which can project anything according to
the belief. When you see things, always remember this.
People come to me.… If somebody is a believer in Krishna and he
meditates, immediately Krishna starts coming to him. “Visions.” But Christ
never comes to him. A Christian starts meditation, then Krishna never
disturbs his meditation. Only Christ comes. To a Mohammedan, neither
Krishna nor Christ comes, and Mohammed cannot come because
Mohammedans have no pictures of Mohammed. They don’t know what he
looked like so they cannot project.
Whatsoever you believe, you project. Belief is a projection. It is just like
a projector in a movie film-house: you see something on the screen which is
not there. The projector is hidden behind, but you never look at the
projector, you look at the screen. The projector is at the back, and the whole
game is going on there, but you look at the screen. The whole game is going
on in your mind, and a mind filled with belief always goes on projecting
things in the world, it sees things which are not there. This is the problem.
The mind which believes is always vulnerable and always provides an
opportunity to be exploited by the cheaters—and the cheaters are all
around. The whole path is filled with robbers, because no map exists.

Moving into religion is moving into the uncharted, into the unmapped.
Robbers can flourish there very easily, they can wait for you—and they are
waiting. And sometimes even if the person is not deceiving you, you want
to be deceived—then you will be deceived. Nobody can deceive you if,
deep down, you are not ready to be deceived.
Just a few days ago a man came to me and he said, “A baba has
deceived me, and he is a great yogi.” I asked him, “What has he done?” The
man said, “He can make gold out of any metal. He has shown me, and I
have seen it happening with my own eyes. Then he said that I should bring
all my gold and he would make it tenfold. So I collected all my ornaments,
and he has simply escaped with them. He has deceived me.”
Everybody will think that this baba had deceived the man, but I told
him, “It is your greed that has deceived you. Don’t throw the responsibility
onto anybody else. You are simply foolish. Greed is foolish. You wanted
your ornaments to be made tenfold—that mind has deceived you, and the
other person has simply used the opportunity. He is just a clever person,
that’s all. You are the real problem. If he had not deceived you, somebody
else would have.”
So, who deceives is not the question. It has been my observation that if
somebody deceives you, it shows a certain proneness in you to be deceived.
If somebody can lie to you, it means you have a certain affinity with lies. A
man of truth cannot be deceived. A man who lives in truth cannot become a
victim of liars. Only a liar can be deceived by another liar; otherwise there
is no possibility. There are millions of people who are ready to be deceived,
who are simply waiting for someone to come and deceive them—because
of their beliefs, because of their vicious desires, because of their greed. And
remember well that greed is greed, whether it exists in the material world or
in the spiritual makes no difference. The quality of it remains the same. You

would like somebody to increase your gold tenfold—this is greed. Then
somebody says, “I will make you an enlightened person,” and you fall in
line immediately. That too is greed.
Greed is greed, whether it exists in the material world or in the
spiritual makes no difference. The quality of it remains the same.
And I tell you: it is possible to increase gold tenfold very easily, but it is
almost impossible to make any other person enlightened. Because that is no
game. The path is arduous. In fact nobody ever makes you enlightened—
you yourself become enlightened; the other may be a catalytic agent at the
most, nothing more. But in fact everything happens within you; the other’s
presence may have helped, that’s all. And if you are really sincere, even that
is not needed. If you are sincere, those who can help will seek you, if you
are insincere, you will seek those who can harm. That is the difference.
When a disciple seeks a master, there is almost always going to be
something wrong. When a master seeks a disciple, only then something
authentic is going to happen.
How can you seek a master? Whatsoever you may think will be your
mind, and you are completely ignorant, you are a sleepwalker. You will
seek somebody according to you. YOU will be the criterion. Then you will
go and seek somebody who is doing a miracle.
You may go and seek Satya Sai Baba, because that will be a deep
fulfillment of your greed. You will see: here is the man. If he can produce
things out of air, he can do anything. Now your greed is provoked. Now a
deep affinity happens immediately. That’s why you will see thousands of
people around Satya Sai Baba. If a Buddha exists, you will not see
multitudes there, because there is no affinity. Satya Sai Baba has an appeal
deep inside you: your greed is provoked. Now you know this is the right

man. But you are wrong. How can you decide who is the right man? You
create your deceivers, you give them the opportunity. You follow
magicians, not masters.
If you really want to seek a master, drop greed and drop your beliefs. Go
to a master completely nude in the mind, with no beliefs; as if you are a tree
in the fall with no leaves, naked, standing against the sky. You go and seek
a master with a naked mind, with no leaves, with no beliefs. Only then, only
then, I say, will you be able to see without projection; only then will
something penetrate into your life from the above. Then nobody can
deceive you.
So don’t be bothered and don’t condemn the deceivers: they fulfill a
need. Because you need them, they are there. Nothing exists without any
cause. People exist all around you, because you need them. Thieves exist,
robbers exist, exploiters exist, deceivers exist, because you need them. You
will be nowhere if they all disappear; you will be simply unable to live your
life if they are not there.
*   *   *
There is one question that a sannyasin has asked: “Osho, in the past you
used to talk about the beautiful way of trust, love, the way of the heart. Now
your emphasis seems to be more on reason, questioning, skepticism,
intelligence. Has your work changed or is it a new phase of your work?”
No, it is not a new phase, it is just the other side of the first. I was
teaching about trust because you had come from a world which knows
nothing of trust. You had come from a world which has trained you
intellectually and tried to deny you the existence of your own heart, to deny
that feeling is also a way of knowing.

I was teaching about trust because you had come from a world which
knows nothing of trust. You had come from a world which has trained you
intellectually and tried to deny you the existence of your own heart, to deny
that feeling is also a way of knowing. I was talking about trust so that I
could open the new door of the heart.
Without opening the door of the heart I cannot say to you, “Doubt, be
skeptical,” because then I am sending you on a dangerous path which leads
nowhere. It is a little complex but try to understand.
A man who knows nothing about feeling, nothing about trust, who has
never experienced anything like love—his heart has never jumped with joy,
danced with joy in someone’s presence—that man can go on doubting, but
he will not find the answer because his doubt will be very shallow. He will
not trust his own doubt. His inquiry will be just so-so. He will not trust his
own inquiry—he knows nothing of trust.
Inquiry will need trust because you will be going into the unknown. It
will demand tremendous trust and courage because you are moving away
from the conventional and the traditional; you are moving away from the
crowd. You are going into the open sea, and you don’t know whether the
other, further shore exists at all. I could not send you into such an inquiry
without preparing you to have trust. It will look contradictory, but what can
I do?—this is how life is.
Only a man of great trust is capable of great doubt. A man of little trust
can only doubt a little. A man of no trust can only pretend that he doubts.
He cannot doubt.
The depth comes through trust—and it is a risk.
Before I send you into the uncharted sea, I have to prepare you for this
immense journey on which you will have to go alone—but I can lead you
up to the boat. That’s what I was trying to teach you—about the beauty of

trust, the ecstasy of the way of the heart—so when you go into the open
ocean of reality you will have courage enough to keep on going. Whatever
happens you will have trust enough in yourself.
Just see it: if you trust me … how can you trust me if you don’t trust
yourself? It is impossible. If you doubt yourself, how can you trust me? It is
you who are going to trust me, and you don’t trust yourself—how can you
trust your trust? It is absolutely necessary that the heart should be opened
before intellect can be transformed into intelligence.
That’s the difference between intellect and intelligence. Intelligence is
intellect in tune with your heart. The heart knows how to trust. The intellect
knows how to seek and search.
There is an old Eastern story: Two beggars used to live outside a village.
One was blind and one had no legs. One day the forest near the village
where these beggars used to live caught fire. They were competitors of
course—in the same profession, begging from the same people—and they
were continually angry with each other. They were enemies, not friends.
People in the same profession cannot be friends. It is very difficult
because it is a question of competition, clients—you take away somebody’s
client. Beggars label their clients: “Remember that this is my man; don’t
you bother him.” You don’t know to which beggar you belong, who the
beggar is in whose possession you are, but some beggar on the street has
possessed you. He may have fought and won the battle and now you are his
possession.
So when the forest was on fire, those two beggars thought for a moment.
They were enemies, not even on speaking terms, but this was an emergency.
The blind man said to the man who had no legs, “Now the only way to
escape is that you sit on my shoulders; use my legs and I will use your eyes.
That’s the only way we can save ourselves.”

It was immediately understood. There was no problem. The man
without legs could not get out; it was impossible for him to cross the forest
—it was all on fire. He would have moved a little bit but that would not
help: an exit, and a very quick exit, was needed. The blind man also was
certain that he could not get out. He did not know where the fire was, where
the road was, and where the trees were burning, and where they were not: a
blind man, he would get lost. But both were intelligent people; they
dropped their enmity, became friends and saved their lives.
This is an Eastern fable. And this is about your intellect and your heart.
It has nothing to do with beggars, it has something to do with you. It has
nothing to do with the forest on fire, it has something to do with you—
because you are on fire. Each moment you are burning, suffering, in misery,
anguish.
Alone, your intellect is blind. It has legs, it can run fast, it can move fast
—but because it is blind it cannot choose the right direction in which to go.
And it is bound to be continually stumbling, falling, hurting itself and
feeling life meaningless. That’s what the intellectuals of the whole world
are saying: “Life is meaningless.”
The reason why life seems to them meaningless is that the blind intellect
is trying to see the light. It is impossible. There is a heart within you which
sees, which feels, but which has no legs; it cannot run. It remains where it
is, beating, waiting: someday intellect will understand and will be able to
use the heart’s eyes.
When I say the word trust I mean the eyes of the heart. And when I say
doubt I mean the legs of your intellect. Both together can come out of the
fire; there is no problem at all. But remember, the intellect has to accept the
heart above its shoulders. It has to. The heart has no legs, only eyes, and
intellect has to listen to the heart and follow its directions.

In the hands of the heart, the intellect becomes intelligent. It is a
transformation, a total transformation of energy.
In the hands of the heart, the intellect becomes intelligent. It is a
transformation, a total transformation of energy. Then the person does not
become an intellectual, he simply becomes wise.
Wisdom comes through the meeting of the heart and the intellect. And
once you have learned the art of how to create a synchronicity between your
heartbeats and the workings of your intellect, you have the whole secret in
your hands, the master key to open all the mysteries.
I have chosen trust as the first step. And once you have felt the taste of
trust then doubt is impotent.
Doubt cannot destroy your trust.
Doubt will destroy your beliefs—they need to be destroyed. Doubt will
destroy all that is not authentic: that needs to be destroyed. What doubt
cannot destroy is trust. When doubt comes face to face with authentic trust,
then doubt accepts the trust—its eyes, its way of feeling—as higher than
itself. It is so clear, there is no other possibility. Your doubt bows down to
your trust, and a friendship happens in you. Your heart is the master, your
intellect becomes the servant.
And that’s what I mean by intelligence.

INSECURE AND UNINSURED
Everybody is in search of security, safety, insurance: how to avoid death?
How to prolong life a little longer, how to be here a little more? How not to
die, how to escape from death? Death predominates—hence money
becomes so important.
Remember, the importance of money is the importance of death, because
money gives you a false sense of security—that you have money, that you
have the physicians, that you have the medicine, that you have the bank
balance, you have the life insurance, you have friends—that you have a
good house, that if there is some trouble you are protected. So a person
becomes obsessed too much with money: have more and more money,
create big China Walls of money around you, so death cannot penetrate.
But nothing can prevent death. Your effort to prevent it simply destroys
an opportunity which could have been a great experience, which could have
flowered into love. There are only two types of people in the world: death-
oriented and love-oriented.
THERE’S A FIRE IN THE KITCHEN!
While Tokai was a visitor at a certain temple, a fire started under the
kitchen floor.
A monk rushed into Tokai’s bedroom, shouting: “A fire, master, a fire!”

“Oh?” said Tokai, sitting up. “Where?”
“Where?” exclaimed the monk. “Why, under the kitchen floor—get up
at once.”
“The kitchen, eh?” said the master drowsily. “Well, tell you what, when
it reaches the passageway, come back and let me know.”
Tokai was snoring again in no time.
*   *   *
THE WHOLE IGNORANCE OF MIND CONSISTS IN NOT BEING IN THE PRESENT. Mind
is always moving: into the future, or into the past. Mind is never here and
now. It cannot be. The very nature of mind is such that it cannot be in the
present—because mind has to think, and in the present moment there is no
possibility to think. You have to see, you have to listen, you have to be
present—but you cannot think. The present moment is so narrow that there
is no space to “think about.” You can be, but thoughts cannot be.
How can you think? If you think, it means it is already past, the moment
has gone. Or, you can think if it has not come yet, if it is in the future.
For thinking, space is needed—because thinking is like taking a walk, a
walk of the mind, a journey. Space is needed. You can walk into the future,
you can walk into the past—but how can you walk into the present? The
present is so close—really, not even close; the present is you. Past and
future are parts of time. The present is you, it is not part of time. It is not a
tense; it is not at all a part of time, it does not belong to time.
The present is you. Past and future are outside of you.
The mind cannot exist in the present. If you can be here, totally present,
mind will disappear.
Mind can desire, can dream, dream a thousand and one thoughts. It can
move to the very end of the world, it can move to the very beginning of the

world, but it cannot be here and now. That is impossible for it.
The whole ignorance consists in not knowing this. And then you worry
about the past, which is no more—it is absolutely stupid! You cannot do
anything about the past. How can you do anything about the past which is
no more? Nothing can be done, it has already gone; but you worry about it,
and worrying about it you waste yourself.
Or, you think about the future and dream and desire. Have you ever
observed? The future never comes, it cannot come; whatever comes is
always the present. And the present is absolutely different from your desires
and your dreams. That’s why whatsoever you desire and dream and imagine
and plan for and worry about never happens. But it wastes you! You go on
deteriorating, you go on dying. Your energies go on moving in a desert, not
reaching any goal, simply dissipating, and then death knocks at your door.
And remember: death never knocks in the past, and death never knocks
in the future. Death knocks in the present. You cannot say to death, “Come
tomorrow.” Death knocks in the present. Life also knocks in the present.
God also knocks in the present. Everything that is, always knocks in the
present. And everything that is not, is always part of the past or future.
Your mind is a false entity because it never knocks in the present. Let
this be the criterion of reality: whatsoever is, is always here and now;
whatsoever is not, is never a part of the present. Drop all that which never
knocks in the now. And if you move in the now, a new dimension opens—
the dimension of eternity.
Past and future move in a horizontal line, just like A moves to B, B to C,
C to D, in a line.
Eternity moves vertically: A moves deeper into the A, higher into the A,
not to B. A goes on moving deeper and higher, both ways; it is vertical. The
present moment moves vertically, time moves horizontally. Time and

present never meet. And you are the present. Your whole being moves
vertically—the depth is open, the height is open. But you are moving
horizontally with the mind.
That’s how you miss God. People come to me and they ask how to meet
God, how to see, how to realize. That is not the point! The point is, how are
you missing him, because he is here and now, knocking at your door. It
cannot be otherwise! If he is real, he must be here and now. Only unreality
is not here and now. He is already at your door, but you are not there; you
are never at home. You go on wandering into millions of worlds, but you
are never at home. There, you are never found—and God comes to meet
you there, reality surrounds you there, but never finds you there.
The real question is not how you should meet God; the real question is
how you should be at home, so that when God knocks he finds you there. It
is not a question of your finding him, it is a question of him finding you.
So it is a real meditation. A man of understanding does not bother about
God or that type of matter, because he is not a philosopher. His concern is
simply how to be at home—how to stop worrying and thinking about the
future and the past, how to settle here and now, how not to move from this
moment.
Once you are in this moment, the door opens. This moment is the door.
NOW, TRY TO ENTER INTO THIS PARABLE WITH ME.
 
While Tokai was a visitor at a certain temple, a fire started under the
kitchen floor.
A monk rushed into Tokai’s bedroom, shouting, “A fire, master, a fire!”
“Oh?” said Tokai, sitting up. “Where?”
“Where?” exclaimed the monk. “Why, under the kitchen floor—get up
at once.”

“The kitchen, eh?” said the master drowsily. “Well, tell you what, when
it reaches the passageway, come back and let me know.”
Tokai was snoring again in no time.
*   *   *
Tokai was a great Zen master, enlightened, living in total awareness. And
whenever you live in total awareness you live moment to moment. You
cannot plan—even for the next moment you cannot plan because who
knows, the next moment may never come! And how can you plan it
beforehand, because who knows what the situation will be in the next
moment? If you plan too much you may miss it, the freshness of it.
Life is such a flux. Nothing remains the same, everything moves.
Heraclitus has said that you cannot step twice in the same river—how can
you plan? By the time you are stepping the second time, so much water has
flowed; it is not the same river. Planning is possible if the past repeats itself.
But the past never repeats itself, repetition never happens—even if you see
something repeating itself, it is just because you cannot see the whole.
Heraclitus also says that every day the sun is new. Of course you will
say it is the same sun—but it cannot be the same, there is no possibility of
its being the same. Much has changed: the whole sky is different. The
whole pattern of stars is different, the sun itself has become older. Now
scientists say that within four billion years the sun will die, its death is
coming near because the sun is an alive phenomenon and it is very old; it
has to die.
Suns are born, they live—and they die. Four billion years for us is very
long; for the sun it is just nothing, it is as if the next moment it is going to
die. And when the sun dies the whole solar family will disappear because
the sun is the source. Every day the sun is dying, becoming older and older

and older—it cannot be the same. Every day energy is lost—a vast amount
of energy is being thrown in the sun’s rays. The sun is less every day,
exhausted. It is not the same, it cannot be the same.
And when the sun rises, it rises upon a different world; the onlooker is
also not the same. Yesterday you may have been filled with love; then your
eyes were different, and the sun of course looked different. You were so
filled with love that a certain quality of poetry was around you, and you
looked through that poetry—the sun may have looked like a god, as it
looked to the seers of the Vedas. They called the sun “God”—they must
have been filled with so much poetry. They were poets in love with
existence, they were not scientists. They were not in search of what matter
was, they were in search of what the mood was. They worshipped the sun.
They must have been very happy and blissful people, because you can
worship only when you feel a blessing; you can worship only when you feel
that your whole life is a blessing.
Yesterday you may have been a poet and today you may not be a poet at
all—because every moment the river is flowing within you. You are also
changing. Yesterday things were fitting into each other, today everything is
a mess: you are angry, you are depressed, you are sad. How can the sun be
the same when the onlooker has changed? Everything changes, so a man of
understanding never exactly plans for the future, cannot. But he is more
ready than you to meet the future, this is the paradox.
You plan, but you are not so ready. In fact, planning means that you feel
so inadequate, that’s why you plan—otherwise, why plan? A guest is
coming, and you plan what you are going to say to him. What nonsense!
When the guest comes can’t you be spontaneous? But you are afraid, you
don’t believe in yourself.

You have no trust—you plan, you go through a rehearsal. Your life is an
acting, it is not the real thing, because a rehearsal is needed only in acting.
And remember: when you are going through a rehearsal, whatever happens
will be an acting, not the real thing. The guest has not arrived and you are
planning already what you will say, how you will greet him, how you are
going to respond; you are already saying things. The guest, in the mind, has
already arrived and you are talking to him. In fact, by the time the guest
arrives you will be fed up with him! In fact, by the time the guest arrives he
has already been with you too much and you are bored, and whatsoever you
say will not be true and authentic. It will not come from you, it will come
from the memory. It will not pop up from your existence, it will come from
the rehearsal that you have been doing. It will be false—and a meeting will
not be possible, because how can a false person meet? And it may be the
same with your guest: he was also planning, he also is fed up with you
already. He has talked too much, and now he would like to be silent. But
whatsoever he says will be out of his rehearsal.
So wherever two persons meet, there are four persons meeting—at least;
more are possible. Two real ones are in the background, two false ones are
meeting and encountering each other. Everything is false, because it comes
out of planning. Even when you love a person you plan and go through a
rehearsal—all the movements you are going to make, how you are going to
kiss, the gestures—and everything becomes false.
Why don’t you trust yourself? When the moment comes, why don’t you
trust your spontaneity? Why can’t you be real?
The mind cannot trust the moment; it is always afraid, that’s why it
plans. Planning means fear. It is fear that plans, and by planning you miss
everything—everything that is beautiful and true, everything that is divine,

you miss. Nobody has ever reached God with a plan; nobody can ever
reach.
While Tokai was a visitor at a certain temple, a fire started under the
kitchen floor.
The first thing: fire creates fear because it is death. So if even fire
cannot create fear, nothing can create fear. But even fire cannot create fear
when you have encountered death, when you know that death does not
exist; otherwise, the moment you hear the word “Fire!” you are in a panic.
No need for it to be a real fire, just somebody running in here and saying,
“Fire!” and you will be in a panic. Somebody may jump out of the building
and may kill himself, and there was no fire. Just the word fire can give you
panic. You live with words. Somebody says “lemon” and juice starts
flowing in your mouth. Somebody says, “Fire!” and you are no longer here,
you have already escaped.
You live with words, not with realities. You live with symbols, not with
realities. And all symbols are artifices, they are not real.
I have heard, overheard really:
An old woman was teaching a younger one how to cook a certain
thing. She was explaining, and then she said, “Six glugs of
molasses.” The younger woman said, “Six what?” The older woman
said: “Six glugs.”
The younger woman was puzzled and asked again, “I’ve never
heard of it before. What is this ‘glug’?”
The older woman said, “My God! You don’t know such a simple
thing? Then it’s difficult to teach you cookery!”

The younger one said, “Be kind and just tell me what this ‘glug’
is.”
The older woman said: “You tip the jug; when it sounds ‘glug’
that is one. Five more like it—six glugs!”
But the whole of language is just like that. No word really means
anything. The meaning is given by us, by mutual contract. That is why three
thousand languages exist in the world—but three thousand realities are not
there. The whole of language is just like “glug.”
You can create your own private language, there is no problem. Lovers
always create their private language—they start using words such that
nobody else understands what they are saying, but they understand. Words
are symbolic. The meaning is given, the meaning is not really there. When
somebody says, “Fire!” there is no fire in the word, there cannot be. When
somebody says “God,” in the word god there is no godliness—cannot be.
The word god is not godliness. When somebody says “love,” the word love
is not love.
When somebody says, “I love you,” don’t be deceived by the words.
But you will be deceived, because nobody looks at reality; people only look
at words. When somebody says, “I love you,” you think, “yes, he loves me”
or “yes, she loves me.” You are getting into a trap, and you will be in
difficulty.
Just look at the reality of this man or this woman. Don’t listen to the
words, listen to the reality. Be in rapport with the reality of this person, and
understanding will arise as to whether whatsoever is being said is only
words, or whether it carries some content also. And depend on the content,
never depend on the word; otherwise sooner or later you will be frustrated.
So many lovers are frustrated in the world—90 percent! The word is the
cause. They believed in the word and they didn’t look at the reality.

Remain unclouded by the words. Keep your eyes clean from the words.
Don’t allow them to settle in your eyes and in your ears; otherwise you will
live in a false world.
Words are false in themselves; they become meaningful only if some
truth exists in the heart from where the words are coming.
While Tokai was a visitor at a certain temple, a fire started under the
kitchen floor.
Fire is fear, fire is death—but not the word “fire.”
A monk rushed into Tokai’s bedroom, shouting: “A fire, master, a
fire!”
He was excited, death was near.
“Oh?” said Tokai, sitting up. “Where?”
You cannot excite a master even if death is there, because excitement
belongs to the mind. And you cannot surprise a master even if death is
there, because surprise also belongs to the mind. Why can’t you surprise a
master?—because he never expects anything. How can you surprise a man
who never expects anything? Because you expect one thing and then
something else happens, that’s why you are surprised. If you are walking on
the street and you see a man coming, and suddenly he becomes a horse, you
will be surprised, amazed: what has happened? But even this will not
surprise a man like Tokai, because he knows life is a flux and everything is
possible: a man can even become a horse, a horse can become a man. This
is what has been already happening many times: many horses have become
men, and many men have become horses. Life moves on!

A master remains without any expectation, you cannot surprise him. To
him everything is possible, and he is not closed to any possibility. He lives
in the moment totally open; whatsoever happens, happens. He has no plan
against reality, no protection. He accepts.
If you expect something, you cannot accept. If you accept everything,
you cannot expect. If you accept and you don’t expect, you cannot be
surprised and you cannot be excited. Excitement is a fever, it is a disease;
when you get excited your whole being is feverish, you are hot. You may
like it sometimes, because there are two types of fever: one that comes out
of pleasure and one that comes out of pain. The one that you like you call
pleasure, but it is also a fever, excitement; and the one that you dislike you
call pain, disease, illness—but both are excitements. And try to observe:
they go on changing into each other.
You love a woman; you get excited and you feel a certain pleasure, or
you interpret it as pleasure. But let that woman remain there and sooner or
later the excitement goes. On the contrary, a boredom creeps in, you feel fed
up. You would like to escape, you would like to be alone. And if the woman
still continues, now the negative enters. You are not only bored, you are in a
negative fever now; you feel ill, you feel nauseous.
Look: your life is just like a rainbow. It carries all the colors, and you go
on moving from one color to another. It carries all the extremes, all the
opposites: from pleasure you move to pain, from pain you move to
pleasure. If the pain goes on too long, you may even start getting a certain
pleasure out of it. If the pleasure lasts too long, you will certainly get pain
out of it. Both are states of excitement, both are fevers.
A man of understanding is without fever. You cannot excite him, you
cannot surprise him. Even if death is there he will coolly ask, “Where?”

And this question, “Where?” is very beautiful, because a man of
enlightenment is always concerned with the here. He is not concerned with
there, he is not concerned with then, he is concerned only with now. Now,
here, is his reality; then, there, is your reality.
“A fire, master, a fire!” … “Oh?” said Tokai, sitting up, “Where?”
He wants to know: there or here.
“Where?” exclaimed the monk.
 … Because he couldn’t believe it, that when there is a fire somebody
could ask such a stupid question. One should simply jump out of the
window and get out of the house; this is no time for subtle arguments.
“Where?” exclaimed the monk. “Why, under the kitchen floor—get
up at once.”
“The kitchen, eh?” said the master drowsily. “Well, tell you
what, when it reaches the passageway, come back and let me know.”
When it reaches here, then come and let me know. If it is there, it is
none of my concern.
The anecdote is very revealing. Anything there is not a concern; only
when it is here does it become real. A master cannot plan for the future. Of
course he is ready: whatsoever happens, he will respond—but he cannot go
through a rehearsal, and he cannot plan. He cannot move before the reality
has come. He will say, “Let the reality come, let the moment knock at my
door, and then we will see.” Unburdened with rehearsals, plans, he is
always spontaneous—and whatsoever he does with his spontaneity is
always right.

Remember this criterion always: whatsoever comes out of your
spontaneity is right. There exists no other criterion of right and wrong.
Whatsoever comes out of the moment, your alive response to it is good.
Nothing else is good—there exists no other criterion for good and bad.
But you are afraid. Because of your fear you create morality; because of
your fear you create distinctions between right and wrong. Don’t you see
that sometimes a situation is different, and the right becomes wrong and the
wrong becomes right? But you remain dead. You don’t look at the situation,
you simply go on following your right and wrong and the conceptions
around it. That’s why you become a misfit. Even trees are wiser than you—
they are not misfits. Even animals are better than you—they are not misfits.
Even clouds are worthier than you—they are not misfits. The whole of
existence fits together; only man is a misfit. Where has he gone wrong?
He has gone wrong with his mental distinctions—“this is right and that
is wrong”—and in life, such fixed things cannot be useful. Something is
wrong this moment, next moment it becomes right. Something is right this
moment, next moment it is right no more. What will you do? You will be
constantly in a state of fear and worry, an inner tension.
The foundational teaching of all those who have known is this: be alert
and spontaneous. Whatsoever happens out of your spontaneous alertness is
right, and whatsoever happens out of your sleep, unconsciousness, is
wrong.
Whatsoever you do unconsciously is wrong—whatsoever you do with
awareness is right. Right and wrong is not a distinction between objects;
right and wrong is a distinction between consciousnesses. Life has no clear-
cut answers. Only one thing is certain: be spontaneous and alert and aware,
and don’t follow any rule. Simply be spontaneous and whatsoever happens,

let it happen. Let the moment decide: that is what all the awakened ones
have said.
If you listen to ordinary moralists they will tell you that life is
dangerous, so go with a decision; otherwise you may do something wrong.
And I tell you that whatsoever you do through a decision will be wrong,
because the whole existence is not following your decisions; the whole
existence moves in its own way. You are a part of it—how can you decide
for the whole? You have to simply be there and feel the situation and do
whatsoever you can do with humbleness, with every possibility of it being
wrong.
Don’t be such an egoist as to think, “Whatsoever I do will be right.”
Then who will do the wrong? Don’t be such an egoist that you think, “I am
moral, and the other is immoral.” The other is also you. You are also the
other. We are one. The murderer and the victim are not two.
But don’t decide. Just be there; feel the whole situation, be in rapport
with the whole situation, and let your inner consciousness do whatsoever
comes. You should not be the doer, you should be just a witness. A doer has
to decide beforehand, a witness need not.
Life is so entangled, entwined, and every event leads to other events;
and whatsoever you do, you will disappear but whatsoever you did, the
consequences will continue forever and forever. They cannot end. Even a
small act—you smile at a person, and you have changed the whole quality
of existence, because that smile will decide many things. Very small things
move around, and they go on moving. It is just like throwing a small pebble
in a lake. Such a small pebble, and then ripples go on and on and on—and
they will go on to the very end. By the time they reach the shore, long
before it, the pebble has settled deep into the bottom, is lost.

That pebble will change the whole quality of existence, because it is all
one net; it is just like a spider’s web: you touch it anywhere, shake it a little,
and the whole web ripples. Everywhere it is felt. You smile at a person—
and the whole world is a spider’s web—and the whole of existence is
changed through that smile.
But how to decide? You need not be bothered with decision, because it
is such a vast thing that you will never be able to make a decision. So don’t
think about the result, simply respond to the situation. Be spontaneous,
alert. Be a witness and not a doer.
A monk rushed into Tokai’s bedroom, shouting: “A fire, master, a
fire!”
“Oh?” said Tokai, sitting up. “Where?”
“Where?” exclaimed the monk. “Why, under the kitchen floor—
get up at once.”
“The kitchen, eh?” said the master drowsily. “Well, tell you
what, when it reaches the passageway, come back and let me know.”
When it has become already the present, then let me know. It is still in
the future—don’t bother me.
Tokai was snoring again in no time.
This is the quality of an enlightened person: so relaxed that although a
fire is burning in the kitchen, the house is catching fire—everybody is
excited and running around, nobody knows what is going to happen,
everything is a mess—he can relax and go to sleep again. He was snoring in
no time.

This nontenseness must come out of—has to come out of—a deep trust
that whatsoever happens is good. He is not worried—even if he dies, he is
not worried; even if the fire comes and burns him he is not worried because
he is no more. The ego is not there; otherwise there will be fear, there will
be worry, there will be a future, there will be planning, there will be a desire
to escape, to save oneself. He is not worried; he simply falls back into sleep,
relaxed.
There is no possibility of relaxation if you have a mind and an ego; the
ego is the center of the mind. You will be tense, you will remain tense.
How to relax? Is there any way to relax? There is no way unless
understanding is there. If you understand the nature of the world, the nature
of the very existence, then who are you to worry, and why be in a worried
state continuously? Nobody asked you about being born, nobody is going to
ask you when the time comes for you to be taken away. Then why be
worried? Birth happened to you; death will happen to you; who are you to
come in between? Things are happening. You feel hunger, you feel love,
you feel anger—everything happens to you, you are not a doer. Nature takes
care. You eat and nature digests it; you need not bother about it, about how
the stomach is functioning, how the food is going to become blood. If you
become too tense about it you will have ulcers—and king-size ulcers, not
ordinary ones!
No need to worry. The whole is moving. The vast, the infinite is
moving. You are just a wave in it. Relax, and let things be.
Once you know how to let go, you have known all that is worth
knowing. If you don’t know how to let go, whatsoever you know is
worthless, it is rubbish.
SECURITY IS THE GREATEST ILLUSION

Why do you choose slavery when freedom is available? Why do you choose
the cage when the doors are open, and the whole sky is yours? The answer
is not very far to find. The cage has security. It protects you from rain, from
sun, from strong wind, from your enemies. It protects you from the vastness
in which one can be lost. It gives you a shelter, it is your cozy home, and
you don’t have any responsibility of worrying about your food, of worrying
about the rainy season, of worrying about whether tomorrow you will be
able to find nourishment or not.
Freedom brings tremendous responsibilities. Slavery is a bargain: you
give your freedom and somebody else starts being responsible for your life,
for your protection, for your food, for your shelter, for everything that you
need. All that you lose is your freedom, all that you lose are your wings, all
that you lose is the starry sky. But that was your soul.
*   *   *
ONE CAN BE SECURE ONLY IN AN ILLUSION, because security is the greatest
illusion there is. Life is insecure. Love is insecure. To be is to be in
insecurity. To be is to be in constant danger. Only the dead are secure
because they cannot die anymore; nothing can ever happen to them now.
The more alive you are the more insecure you are. Hence many
people have decided not to be alive, because a kind of deadness
gives security, protection, armor.
The more alive you are the more insecure you are. Hence many people
have decided not to be alive, because a kind of deadness gives security,
protection, armor. Many people have decided not to look into reality,
because reality is insecure. I cannot do anything, you cannot do anything

about it—it is how it is. Reality is insecure; one never knows what is going
to happen in the next moment. I may be here, I may not be here; you may
be here, you may not be here. The next breath may come in, may not come.
The person who loves you may simply forget all about you tomorrow.
That’s how life is.
So we have created illusions—then we hide ourselves behind the
illusions so we need not see the insecurity of life. Marriage is an illusion,
love is a reality. Love is insecure. Nobody knows whether it is going to be
there tomorrow or not. It is like a breeze: when it comes it comes, when it is
gone it is gone. You cannot manipulate it, you cannot control it, you cannot
predict it.
But the mind is very much afraid: if tomorrow your woman leaves you,
what are you going to do? How will you ever be able to live without her?
You have become so dependent on her, you cannot conceive of yourself
without her, so you make some arrangements: close the doors, close the
windows, lock everything, so she cannot escape. That’s what marriage is:
making legal locks so you cannot easily escape. You can go to the police,
you can go to the court, you can harass the woman to come back. But when
you close all the doors and all the windows, the woman is no longer the
same as she was when she was under the sky, under the stars; she is no
longer the same. The bird on the wing is a totally different phenomenon
from the bird in the cage. The bird in the cage is no more the same bird,
because it no longer has the same sky, the same freedom. It is imprisoned,
its soul is killed. It only appears alive—its wings are cut. It only appears
that it is; now it will only vegetate.
Without freedom there is no life. But one thing is good about the cage: it
has security. Now the bird need not be worried about food; tomorrow
morning he is going to be fed as usual. He need not worry about enemies,

predators; nobody can attack him. The bird may think he is not caged but
protected. He may think these iron bars are not enemies but friends; he may
start loving them. Even if one day you want to make him free, he may not
like the very idea; he may resist. He may not go even if you open the door.
He will say, “I am not going. How can I leave my security?” He has
forgotten all the joy of freedom; now he only remembers the comfort and
the convenience of security.
Marriage is a cage, love is the open sky. We have destroyed love and
created the illusion of marriage. It is ugly. Two persons together out of love
is one thing, and two persons together because of the law is totally different.
Their souls are no more together, only their bodies are tethered together.
Because they cannot escape, because the escape seems to be costly—and
the children are there, and all the comforts of family life and the home—
they decide to remain slaves. They decide not to live but just to exist. And
then, of course, people have many kinds of illusions of the past, of the
future.
You are not alone in it; every human being is in the same boat. Because
we cannot live in the present …
It is dangerous to live in the present because to live in the present means
to be authentic. We live in the past, we live in the future. Past and future are
very easy, comfortable, no danger. You can manipulate your past, you can
control it. You can order your past—your past is very obedient. It is
nonexistential, it exists only in your memory; you can arrange it again and
again.
Hence one of the greatest psychological insights is that up to now no
autobiography has been written. Millions have been written, but they are all
untrue. To write an autobiography seems to be almost impossible, because
you always go on arranging your memories. When you look back, it is not

the real past that you are looking at. It is no longer there, just your memory
of it. And in the memory also you choose. First you choose while you are
experiencing something—a thousand and one things are happening every
day, but you choose only a few. Scientists say only 2 percent—98 percent is
not chosen, only 2 percent. All that feels good to you, ego-enhancing,
gratifying, you choose. All that seems like suffering, pain—all that hurts—
you don’t choose.
Your memory is a choice first, and then each time you remember it your
experiences are growing, and your experiences go on being reflected in
your memories. You go on giving them new colors, you go on painting
them again and again, so many coats that by the time you write your
autobiography … And people write autobiographies only when they know
that they are dead. When they know that now nothing more is going to
happen, then they write autobiographies.
When a person is alive, how can he write his autobiography? When he
thinks that everything is finished—“I have lived, the full point has come,
now there is nothing else to happen”—then he writes. Now he looks back,
paints all the memories as he wants them to be. All autobiographies are
fiction. My suggestion to the librarians is that all autobiographies should be
counted and categorized as fiction. They are fiction and nothing else: you
magnify things that you would like, and unconsciously you add many
things that have never happened. And I am not saying that you are cheating
knowingly, no; you may believe. Just start telling a lie, and after ten years
you will be suspicious about whether it was a lie or a truth.
A journalist died; he knocked on the doors of heaven. Saint Peter
opened the door and said, “Sorry, are you a journalist?”—because it
is very difficult to miss a journalist: he looks like one from his very
face, from his eyes.

And the man said, “Yes, but how did you recognize it?”
He said, “It is very difficult to miss a journalist. But I am sorry,
we don’t have any place for journalists anymore in heaven, the quota
is full. We have only one dozen journalists; even those are just
useless because nothing ever happens in heaven, nothing worth
reporting, nothing like news.”
You know the definition of news that George Bernard Shaw has given?
“When a man bites a dog it is news, not when a dog bites a man.” That is
not news, that is nothing.
“In heaven news does not happen; no newspaper is published. Even
those twelve journalists are just useless, so what do we need you
for? You go to hell—and there is news and news and news. Nothing
else ever happens there, everything is news. And there are many,
many papers, and great is their circulation. You go there, you will
have a good job.”
But the journalist said, “No, I cannot go. Can’t you manage in
some way? If you give me twenty-four hours’ time I can convince
some other journalist to go to hell, and you can allow me in in his
vacant place.”
Peter said, “That’s okay—twenty-four hours are given. You go
in.”
The journalist entered with all his journalistic acumen, skill. He
started a rumor; to whomsoever he came across he said, “Have you
heard? A big newspaper is going to be started in hell and all the
posts are vacant—the chief editor and the assistant chief editor, and
other assistants,” and this and that, whomsoever he met he told that.

After twenty-four hours, when he got back, Saint Peter would not
open the door. He said, “You cannot go out, you have to stay in.”
He said, “But what is the matter?”
Saint Peter said, “All the twelve have left. Now at least just for
the name’s sake we should have one journalist. You be in!”
The journalist said, “I can’t stay now anymore. Let me go! There
must be something in the news. How can twelve persons believe if
there is nothing in it? It can’t be just a rumor. There must be some
truth in it—maybe a fragment, but there must be some truth in it. I
cannot remain any longer. Open the door, let me go.”
If you start a lie, sooner or later you will believe in it. In fact, before
others believe in it you will believe in it, and after ten years it will be
difficult to tell whether it was a lie. After ten years it will be difficult to tell
whether you had dreamed about it or you had really lived the thing. Your
dreams and your life will become mixed into each other.
It is very difficult to write an autobiography. It has not yet been done,
and I don’t think it can ever be done. Those who can write, they don’t write.
A Buddha can write, but he says he has no autobiography to write. He says,
“I was never born.” He says, “I have never uttered a single word.” He says,
“I never became enlightened because I was never unenlightened.” He says,
“I never died because nothing ever dies. So what autobiography? There is
no self, so what autobiography? There is no ego, there is no center, so what
about the circumference? No circumference is possible.”
A buddha can write, but he will not write; and others who write are
bound to write fictions.
You go on living in the past; it is very comfortable. You are the master
—about your past you are the master; you can do anything you want to do
with the past. And about the future also you are the master: you can become

the president of America, of India—in the future. You can do anything you
want. And everybody does something: just sitting silently, you start
imagining that passing by the side of the road you have found a bag full of
money. And not only that, you start planning how to use that money; you
start purchasing things. You are the master.
The past and the future give you the idea that you are a king. The
present takes all illusions away, the present simply reveals your naked truth.
And the present reveals the insecurity that life is, because life implies death.
And everything that implies that it cannot be forever—everything that is—
is going to be nonexistential sooner or later. The flower that has bloomed in
the morning is beautiful; by the evening it will be gone, the petals will
wither away, and tomorrow you will not find even a trace of it. That’s how
real life is: changing, moving, dynamic, nothing static, nothing permanent,
always in a flux.
That’s why not only you but everybody starts living in the past and the
future: to avoid the present and its danger.
Friedrich Nietzsche is right: he says, “Live dangerously.” In fact there is
no other way to live; one can only live dangerously. The other way is of
avoiding life, not of living. And that’s what sannyas is all about. It is to
accept the insecurity of life, it is to accept death. It is to accept that
everything can disappear at any moment. Your love, your friendship, you,
everything is only for the moment. The next moment the petals will wither
away, all will be gone.
Knowing this and yet rejoicing, knowing this and yet dancing, knowing
this and yet having a song on your lips, knowing this and yet having joy in
your eyes—that’s what sannyas is all about. In fact, this insecurity is
beautiful. This insecurity has a blessing in it, because if everything were
secure there would be no life at all. If everything were secure there would

be rocks and rocks—no flowers, no birds, no people. If everything were
secure there might be notes, mathematics, science, but no poetry, no music,
no dance. The world would be a dead world, phony, plastic.
The real world has to be in a constant danger. That danger adds to its
beauty, that danger gives a depth, that danger makes it challenging.
Come out of your security and your illusions.
LEARN THE ART OF NONDOING
Trust means being open, available, receptive like a womb. When you are
open to the wind and the rain and to the sun of existence, when there is no
resistance at all—when you are in a state of let-go … That is trust, the state
of let-go. When you are moving with existence, just floating with the river
toward the ocean with no idea of your own about where you would like to
go, with no idea that you are—so utterly relaxed with the river of life that
you are no longer separate. Just a ripple in the river, a wave—that is trust.
*   *   *
THERE ARE THINGS WHICH ONLY HAPPEN, WHICH CANNOT BE DONE. Doing is the
way of very ordinary things, mundane things. You can do something to earn
money, you can do something to be powerful, you can do something to have
prestige; but you cannot do anything as far as love is concerned, gratitude is
concerned, silence is concerned.
It is a very significant thing to understand that doing means the world,
and nondoing means that which is beyond the world—where things happen,
where only the tide brings you to the shore. If you swim, you miss, if you
do something, you will undo it, because all doing is mundane.

Very few people come to know the secret of nondoing and allowing
things to happen. If you want great things—things that are beyond the small
reach of human hands, human mind, human abilities—then you will have to
learn the art of nondoing. I call it meditation. It is a trouble, because the
moment you give a name to it, immediately people start asking how to do it.
And you cannot say that they are wrong, because the very word meditation
creates the idea of doing. They have done their doctorate, they have done a
thousand and one things; when they hear the word meditation they ask, “So
just tell us how to do it.”
And meditation basically means the beginning of nondoing, relaxing,
going with the tide—just being a dead leaf in the winds, or a cloud, moving
with the winds. Never ask a cloud, “Where are you going?” He himself
does not know; he has no address, he has no destiny. If the winds change …
He was going to the south, he starts moving toward the north. The cloud
does not say to the winds, “This is absolutely illogical. We were moving
south, now we are moving north—what is the point of it all?” No, he simply
starts moving north as easily as he was moving south. To him, south, north,
east, west, don’t make any difference. Just to move with the wind—with no
desire, with no goal, nowhere to reach—he is just enjoying the journey.
Never ask a meditator, “Why are you meditating?” because that
question is irrelevant. Meditation is in itself the goal and the way
together.
Meditation makes you a cloud—a cloud of consciousness. Then there is
no goal. Never ask a meditator, “Why are you meditating?” because that
question is irrelevant. Meditation is in itself the goal and the way together.
Lao Tzu is one of the most important figures in the history of nondoing.
If history is to be written rightly then there should be two kinds of histories:

the history of doers—Genghis Khan, Tamerlane, Nader Shah, Alexander,
Napoleon Bonaparte, Ivan the Terrible, Joseph Stalin, Adolf Hitler, Benito
Mussolini; these are the people who belong to the world of doing. There
should be another history, a higher history, a real history—of human
consciousness, of human evolution. This is the history of Lao Tzu, Chuang
Tzu, Lieh Tzu, Gautama Buddha, Mahavira, Bodhidharma—a totally
different kind.
Lao Tzu became enlightened sitting under a tree. A leaf had just started
falling—it was in the fall, and there was no hurry; the leaf was coming
down zigzag with the wind, slowly. He watched the leaf. The leaf came
down on the ground, settled on the ground, and as he watched the leaf
falling and settling, something settled in him. From that moment he became
a non-doer. The winds come on their own, the existence takes care.
He was the contemporary of a great thinker, moralist, law-giver:
Confucius. Confucius belongs to the other history, the history of the doers.
Confucius had great influence over China, and has even today. Chuang Tzu
and Lieh Tzu were the disciples of Lao Tzu. These three people have
reached to the highest peaks, but nobody seems to be impressed by them.
People are impressed when you do something great. Who is impressed by
somebody who has achieved a state of nondoing?
But Confucius had heard the name of Lao Tzu and was interested
—“What kind of man is this who says that real things can be achieved only
by nondoing? Nothing can be achieved by nondoing; you have to do, you
have to become a great doer.” And hearing that Lao Tzu was very close by
in the mountains, Confucius went with his disciples to see him. He had
many disciples—kings, princes. He was a great teacher. But he stopped
everybody outside. He said, “Let me go inside the cave to see him, because
I have heard he is a dangerous man and I don’t know how he is going to

behave with me. You simply remain outside. If I call you in, you can come;
otherwise I will tell you afterward what happened.”
And it was wise of him not to take that whole group of disciples with
him, because when he came back he was perspiring. And they said, “What
happened?—because it is so cold, and the winds are so cool in the
mountains, and you are perspiring.”
He said, “You should be glad I am alive. That man is not a man, he is a
dragon. He is really dangerous, avoid him!”
We don’t know from Lao Tzu’s side what happened in the cave, but we
know what Confucius reported.
He said, “As I entered in he did not even look at me. I went around him,
but he did not take any note of me. Even that was enough to give me a
trembling—in that dark cave, that man sitting there so silent, as if he is not.
Finally I had to break the silence, to break the ice, and I said, ‘I am
Confucius.’
“And that old, dangerous fellow said, ‘So what! Remain Confucius.’
And the conversation would not start because—how to talk with this man? I
said, ‘I have come here to talk with you.’
“He said, ‘Okay, you can talk. I have never prevented anybody from
talking. Talk, but there is nobody here to answer you.’
“Gathering courage,” Confucius said, “I asked, ‘But what about you?’
And he laughed and he said, ‘About me? Yes, I used to be, but it is for a
long time that I have not been. The house is empty, there is no host here.
But if you want, you can be a guest.’”
Seeing that there was no way to have a nice, gentlemanly conversation
with this man, Confucius said, “I have come from a long distance”—
thinking that Lao Tzu would feel a little compassion.

Lao Tzu said, “That shows that you are stupid. You don’t know
anything about me; otherwise you would not have come. Now you want
some compassion from me. A man who is absent, how can he be
compassionate?”
Confucius said, “At least give me some advice—how to relax, to rest.”
Lao Tzu said, “For that you will have to wait. Death will come, and in
your grave you will relax and rest, not before that, because if you want to
rest before that, then forget that crowd that you have left outside. You
remain here and I will go—just a lion’s roar and they will all escape, none
will come back to this cave again. You rest and relax.”
So Confucius said, “No, don’t do that. They are my disciples. Some are
kings, some are princes; some are great, rich people. I cannot afford it.”
Lao Tzu said, “That’s why I said that in life you cannot afford
relaxation; only death can help. Those who understand can relax in life and
rest in life. And the miracle is that for them there is no death, because they
have already done what death does. Those who are stupid don’t rest, they
don’t relax. In that case nature has managed a device called death, so they
can relax in their graves.
“Don’t be worried. You will have a good marble grave with great
inscriptions on it in golden letters: ‘Here lies the great Confucius, the
teacher of kings and emperors.’ But if you want to be with me, you have to
understand I am going to be a death to you. Without that—unless I kill you,
destroy you—there is no way of saving you.”
Confucius somehow said, “I will come again.”
Lao Tzu laughed. He said, “Don’t lie. You will never come again. This
time you came because you had no idea what kind of man you were going
to meet. But I enjoyed it. Now go and tell the crowd all the lies you want.”

So we don’t know exactly what transpired in that cave. This much is
from Confucius. Much more must have happened there, which needs guts
even to report.
LAO TZU’S WHOLE TEACHING WAS THE WATERCOURSE WAY: just go with the
water wherever it is going, don’t swim. But the mind always wants to do
something, because then the credit goes to the ego.
If the tide has brought you to the shore, the credit goes to the tide, not to
you. If you had come swimming to the shore, you would have come with a
great ego: “I managed to cross the English Channel!” But why not give the
credit to the tide? Why not give the credit to existence?
Existence gives you birth, gives you life, gives you love; it gives you
everything that is invaluable, that you cannot purchase with money. Only
those who are ready to give the whole credit of their lives to existence
realize the beauty and the benediction; only those people are religious
people. It is not a question of your doing. It is a question of your being
absent, nondoing—letting things happen.
Let go—just these two words contain the whole of religious
experience.
Let go—just these two words contain the whole of religious experience.
Have you sometimes seen people drowning in water? While they are
alive they come up again and again and shout, “Help! Help!” And again
they go down, come up, go down, and finally they don’t come up. But after
two or three days they come up, and then they don’t go back down—but
now they are dead.
The village where I was born was by the side of a beautiful river, and I
have seen a few people drowning in the river—it was a mountainous river;
in the rainy season it became miles wide, and the current was so strong that

to cross it was just to risk your life—but when they died, they suddenly
came up, started floating.
In my very childhood I learned one thing: that there is something which
dead people know and the living people don’t know—because the living
shout, “Help! Help!” and go down; and the dead simply come up, no
shouting. And they float so easily—and no drowning anymore. They must
know some secret. I used to ask my father, “What is the secret that the dead
people know?”
He said, “You are mad, and you will drive me mad. Now how am I
supposed to know? They are simply dead, they know nothing.”
I said, “I cannot trust that, because I can see them floating so
beautifully, there must be a secret that the living are missing.” And when I
started swimming, I came to know the secret.
In the beginning when you learn swimming it seems so difficult, almost
impossible. You get drowned so many times—water goes in the nose, in the
mouth—but just within three or four days you are perfect, as if you have
been swimming for lives. And just within three or four weeks you can float
like a dead man, without swimming, without moving your hands. You can
just lie down, relaxed, and the river is no longer trying to drown you.
I told my father, “I have learned the secret. It is not a big thing, it is a
simple thing. Because the dead are not trying to swim, they are relaxed.
They are not worried about drowning, they are already dead—what can
they do? They are in a state of nondoing. And the living are trying hard to
save themselves. It is not the river that drowns them; it is their effort to save
themselves that drowns them! Because now I know exactly how to be like a
dead body in the water, I can lie there for hours and the river is not
interested in drowning me. But it is a nondoing, I am not doing anything.”

In life you are trying to do everything. Please, leave a few things for
nondoing, because those are the only valuable things.
There are people who are trying to love, because from the very
beginning the mother is saying to the child, “You have to love me because I
am your mother.” Now she is making love also a logical syllogism
—“because I am your mother.” She is not allowing love to grow on its own,
it has to be forced. The father is saying, “Love me, I am your father.” And
the child is so helpless that all that he can do is pretend. What else can he
do? He can smile, he can give a kiss, and he knows that it is all pretension
—he does not mean it, it is all phony. It is not coming from him but because
you are his daddy, you are his mommy, you are this, you are that. They are
spoiling one of the most precious experiences of life. Then wives are telling
husbands, “You have to love me, I am your wife.” Strange. Husbands are
saying, “You have to love me. I am your husband, it is my birthright.”
Love cannot be demanded. If it comes your way, be thankful; if it
does not come, wait.
Love cannot be demanded. If it comes your way, be thankful; if it does
not come, wait. Even in your waiting there should be no complaint, because
you don’t have any right. Love is nobody’s right: no Constitution can give
you the right of love. But they are all destroying everything, and then wives
are smiling, husbands are hugging …
One of America’s most famous authors, Dale Carnegie, writes that
every husband has to tell his wife at least three times a day, “I love you,
darling.” Are you insane? But he means it, and it works. Many people,
millions of people, are practicing Dale Carnegie followers. “When you
come home, bring ice cream, flowers, roses, to show that you love”—as if
love needs to be shown, proved materially, pragmatically, linguistically,

every now and then uttered again and again so nobody forgets it. If you
don’t tell your wife for a few days that “I love you,” she will count how
many days have passed, and she will become more and more suspicious that
this man must be saying it to somebody else because her quota is being cut.
Love is a quantity. If he is not bringing ice cream anymore, ice cream must
be going somewhere else, and this cannot be tolerated.
We have created a society that believes only in doings, while the
spiritual part of our being remains starved—because it needs something that
is not done but happens. Not that you manage to say “I love you” but that
suddenly you find yourself saying that you love. You are surprised yourself
at what you are saying. You are not rehearsing it in your mind first and then
repeating it—no, it is spontaneous.
And, in fact, the real moments of love remain unspoken. When you are
really feeling love, that very feeling creates around you a certain radiance
that says everything that you cannot say, that can never be said.
I have been struggling from my very childhood on each and every point.
I told my father, “I will not respect you because you are my father, I will
respect you if you are respectable. Whether you are my father or not is
irrelevant; it is of no consequence. I will love you if you are lovable, if you
are loving. And remember that it is not because you are my father, it is just
because you are a man worth loving.” I had to fight with my teachers, my
professors: “I will respect you only if you are respectable. If you are not
respectable, then don’t ask me to show respect to you—because that is what
hypocrisy is. You are teaching me hypocrisy, and I don’t expect any of my
teachers to teach me hypocrisy.”
We live without any rebelliousness, and the ultimate result is that
slowly, slowly hypocrisy becomes our very characteristic. We forget
completely that it is hypocrisy. And in the mind, in the being of a man who

is a hypocrite, anything of the world of nondoing is impossible. He can go
on doing more and more; he will become almost a robot. His whole life is
doing. Day and night he is doing, because everything that he has is an
outcome of doing.
But if you suddenly have an experience of happening, take it as a gift
from existence—and make that moment a beginning of a new lifestyle.
Forget swimming; allow the tide to take you to any shore.
My whole approach is of nondoing. Just allow a few moments in
twenty-four hours when you are not doing anything, allowing the existence
to do something to you. And windows will start opening in you—windows
which will connect you with the universal, the immortal.
DON’T ASK FOR CONSOLATIONS
The whole morality of the world—forms differ, but the essential base is the
same—has been condemning you. You are wrong, something has to be done.
You have to be put right, you have to be polished. You have to be made
worthy.
So if somebody says, “The door is open right now,” you feel
uncomfortable. Then you cannot enter. But if he says it is in the future, then
there is time enough. You are at ease, you can work it out. You will polish
yourself. You can create an image, an ideal, and you will follow that ideal
so that someday or other you will become a saint. This is a trick of the
mind: if you can postpone, the mind remains the same. To remain the same,
the mind wants to postpone—not to change. Ideals are needed—not to take
the jump. Time is needed so that you can postpone.
Postponing is the basis of your continuing as you are.
*   *   *

THERE IS ONLY ONE WAY TO LIVE. Friedrich Nietzsche has said, “Live
dangerously.” That is the only way to live: you have to live in insecurity.
And the beauty of insecurity is that once you have become courageous
enough to live in insecurity, all insecurity disappears from life. Alan Watts
called it “the security of insecurity.”
There is something like the insecurity of security. Whatsoever you think
is secure is not; deep down, there is an undercurrent of insecurity. You have
money in the bank, but the bank can go bankrupt—what kind of security is
there? You have a strong body, but even the strongest body can become ill.
You can have a heart attack, or sooner or later death is going to overtake
you. You have a beautiful body; it can become ugly any moment—a car
accident or anything. You have a beautiful woman who loves you, but
tomorrow she may fall in love with somebody else; if she could fall in love
with you, why can she not fall in love with somebody else?
You are in love with somebody today—who knows about tomorrow?
All is insecure. You only pretend that things are secure. Your security is just
a camouflage: behind it all is insecurity. Your friends can become enemies,
your brothers can betray you; nothing is secure.
So first see that all our security is superficial, a façade; behind it is
insecurity. And vice versa—if you start living in insecurity you will be
surprised: insecurity will be only on the surface, and deep down you will be
secure.
How does it happen? When you drop the fear of insecurity, insecurity
disappears; it exists in the fear of it. Rather than being afraid of it, you start
enjoying its thrill—because insecurity is adventurous, it brings new
surprises to you, it is a constant venture into the unknown. It has a great
thrill. It takes you from the known to the unknown every moment, there are
always surprises, and each moment of your life becomes unpredictable.

Hakim Sanai says:
Until you throw your sword away, you’ll not become a shield.
If you carry the sword in your hand, afraid, protecting yourself, you will
remain unprotected, you will not become a shield.
Throw away the sword, and immediately you become the shield. Throw
away the fear of insecurity, throw away the desire to be secure, and you are
secure. All security is in God, with godliness, with the whole. If you exist
separately as a self, you are insecure. If you forget about yourself, if you
merge into the whole, you are secure. In that union is security: you become
a shield.
He also says:
Until you lay your crown aside, you’ll not be fit to lead.
And this is the basic evil, to search for security. Evil is really a selling or
trading of aliveness for survival. The mind-set is interested only in survival.
The ego is continuously hankering to survive; the mind wants to remain
secure in every possible way, and because of its obsession with security it
cripples you, paralyzes you. To trade aliveness for survival is the
fundamental evil.
Drop this fear of insecurity. Love insecurity, because insecurity is life.
Don’t live out of fear, because one who lives out of fear does not really live,
he only vegetates. Those who live out of fear live constantly focused on
death. Fear means fear of death. All fear can be reduced to the fear of death.
And those who are focused on death go on missing life, because how can
you enjoy life if you are constantly thinking of death?

If a man is afraid of adventures, then he will remain closed. He will live
almost in a grave. Then he will find that fear is everywhere: all kinds of
fears will torment him, he will become paranoid. He will not be able to live
at all; he will at the most survive. He only survives, he does not live.
You have to drop this fear—because this fear perpetuates itself; it
becomes bigger and bigger and it drowns you in its mud.
*   *   *
IN THE VERY ASKING FOR SECURITY YOU CREATE THE PROBLEM: when you ask
for security, you become insecure; the more you ask the more insecure you
will be. Insecurity is the very nature of life. If you don’t ask for security,
then you will never be worried by the insecurity.
When you ask for security, you become insecure; the more you
ask the more insecure you will be.
As trees are green, life is insecure. If you start asking that trees should
be white, then there are problems. The problem is created by you, not by the
trees! They are green, and you ask them to be white? They cannot do it;
they cannot perform in that way.
Life is insecure, love is insecure. We are in emptiness, in tremendous
nothingness—and it is good that it is so, otherwise we would be dead. Life
can be a security only if you are dead; then everything can be certain.
Underneath a rock there is ground. Underneath a flower there is none—
the flower is insecure. A small breeze, and the flower may disperse, the
petals may fall and disappear. It is a miracle that the flower is there! Life is
a miracle, because there is no reason for it to be. It is simply a miracle that
you are—otherwise there is every reason for you not to be.

Maturity comes to you only when you accept this—and not only accept;
you start rejoicing in it. Life is insecure—that means life is free! If there is
security then there will be bondage; if everything is certain then there will
be no freedom. If tomorrow is fixed, then there will be security but you
have no freedom. Then you are just like a robot. You have to fulfill certain
things that are already predestined.
But tomorrow is beautiful because tomorrow is total freedom. Nobody
knows what is going to happen; whether you will be breathing, whether you
will be alive at all—nobody knows. Hence there is beauty, because
everything is in a chaos, a challenge, and everything is existing as a
possibility.
Don’t ask for consolations. If you go on asking, you will remain
insecure.
Accept insecurity; then insecurity disappears and you are no longer
insecure. It is not a paradox, it is a simple truth—paradoxical, but
absolutely true. Up to now you have existed, so why be worried about
tomorrow? If you could exist today, if you could exist yesterday, tomorrow
will take care of itself too. Don’t think of the morrow, and move freely. Just
having the understanding, immediately you feel at ease.
But that ease is not that of security, that ease is not that of death, that
ease is not of the grave. That ease has tremendous chaos in it, but it is still
ease because you are not asking for more, so there is no tension. A chaos at
ease—that’s how a man should be.
TETHER YOUR CAMEL FIRST
Trust in Allah, but tether your camel first.—Sufi saying
*   *   *

THERE ARE TWO TYPES OF PEOPLE IN THE WORLD. One thinks he has to do
something; he himself is the doer. He does not trust the whole, the
encompassing whole. He simply lives on his own small energy, and
naturally is defeated again and again and proves a failure. If you live on
your very small energy against this vast energy that surrounds you, you are
going to be a loser, a goner! And you will suffer great agonies and anguish;
your whole life will be nothing but a long, long misery. Then the second
type of person is one who thinks, “When existence is doing everything, I
need not do anything. I’m not supposed to do anything.” He simply sits and
waits. His life becomes more and more lazy, and there comes a point when
he no longer lives, he simply vegetates.
These two types represent East and West. The West represents the doer,
the active type, and the East represents the non-doer, the passive type. The
West is driving itself crazy. The problem of Western humanity is too much
action, no trust, too much dependence upon oneself, as if “I have to do
everything,” as if “I am alone,” as if “Existence does not care a bit about
me.” Naturally it creates anxiety, and the anxiety is too much, unbearable. It
creates all kinds of neuroses, psychoses; it keeps people always on the
verge, tense, nervous. It is murderous, it is maddening.
The West has succeeded in doing many things. It has succeeded in
getting rid of the idea of trusting existence, has succeeded in dropping all
kinds of trust and surrender, has dropped all kinds of relaxing moods,
knows nothing of let-go—it has forgotten completely. That’s why in the
West people are finding it more and more difficult even to fall asleep,
because sleep needs a certain kind of trust.
Once I came to know a man who could not sleep in the night; he would
keep himself awake. He would sleep in the day but he would keep himself
awake in the night. His wife told me, “Do something, because this is

creating many problems. He cannot work because he sleeps in the day, and
the whole night he keeps awake and keeps us also awake, so he is driving
me mad!”
I inquired as to what the phenomenon was. The man was a great
doubter, an untrusting man. He told me, “I cannot sleep in the night because
everybody is asleep. If something happens to me, then who is there to take
care? I sleep in the day because the children are awake, my wife is awake,
the neighbors are awake, the whole world is awake. If something happens
to me it can be taken care of. If I die in the night, then…? If I stop breathing
in the night, then…?”
He was a madman, but that is exactly what is creating insomnia in the
West. People think they cannot fall asleep, that something has gone wrong
in their bodies. Nothing has gone wrong in their bodies—their bodies are as
healthy as ever, in fact healthier than ever. But the idea has gone so deeply
into their minds that they have to do everything. And sleep cannot be done,
it is not part of “doing.” Sleep has to be allowed. You cannot do it, it is not
an act; sleep comes, it happens.
The West has forgotten completely how to let things happen, how to be
in a let-go, so sleep has become difficult. Love has become difficult, orgasm
has become difficult. Life is so tense and strained that there seems to be no
hope, and man asks again and again, “What to live for? Why go on living?”
The West is on the verge of committing suicide. That moment of suicide is
coming closer and closer.
The East has succeeded in relaxing too much, in being in a let-go too
much. It has become very lazy. People go on dying, starving—and they are
happy with it, they are not worried about it, they trust existence. They
adjust to all kinds of ugly situations. They never change anything. They are
good sleepers, and they have a certain calm and quietude about them, but

their lives are almost like vegetating. Millions of people die every year in
the East just because of hunger. Neither they do anything nor does anybody
else bother about it—“It must be the will of Allah!”
This Sufi saying—trust in Allah, but tether your camel first—wants to
create the third type of human being, the real human being: one who knows
how to do and how not to do, who can be a doer when needed, can say yes,
and who can be passive when needed and can say no. One who is utterly
wakeful in the day and utterly asleep in the night, who knows how to inhale
and how to exhale, who knows the balance of life.
“Trust in Allah, but tether your camel first.” This saying comes from a
small story.
A master was traveling with one of his disciples. The disciple was in
charge of taking care of the camel. They came in the night, tired, to a
caravanserai. It was the disciple’s duty to tether the camel; he didn’t
bother about it, he left the camel outside. Instead of that he simply
prayed. He said to Allah, “Take care of the camel,” and fell asleep.
In the morning the camel was gone—stolen or wandered away,
or whatever happened. The master asked, “What happened to the
camel? Where is the camel?”
The disciple said, “I don’t know. You ask Allah, because I had
told him to take care of the camel. I was so tired that I fell asleep
immediately, so I don’t know. I am not responsible either, because I
had told him, and very clearly! There was no missing the point. Not
only once in fact, I told him thrice. You go on teaching ‘Trust Allah,’
so I trusted. Now don’t look at me with anger.”
The master said, “Trust in Allah, but tether your camel first—
because Allah has no other hands than yours.”

If he wants to tether the camel Allah will have to use somebody’s hands;
he has no other hands. And it is your camel! The best way and the easiest
and the shortest way for him is to use your hands.
Trust existence—don’t trust only your hands, otherwise you will
become tense. Tether the camel and then trust existence. You will ask,
“Then why trust existence if you are tethering the camel?” Because a
tethered camel can also be stolen.
You do whatsoever you can do. That does not make the result certain,
there is no guarantee. So you do whatsoever you can, and then whatever
happens, accept it. This is the meaning of tethering the camel: do whatever
is possible for you to do, don’t shirk your responsibility. And then if
nothing happens, or something goes wrong, trust existence. Then existence
knows best. Then maybe it is right for us to travel without the camel.
Do whatever is possible for you to do, don’t shirk your
responsibility. And then if nothing happens, or something goes
wrong, trust existence. Then existence knows best.
It is very easy to trust existence and be lazy. It is very easy not to trust
existence and be a doer. To be the third type of person is difficult—to trust
existence and yet remain a doer. But now you are only instrumental;
existence is the real doer, you are just instruments in its hands.
Who or what the camel is depends on the context. The content of the
camel will be there, but the context will be different. Each day it happens:
you could have done something but you didn’t do it, and you are using the
excuse that “if existence wants it done, it will do it anyhow.” Or you do
something and then you wait for the result, you expect, and the result never
comes. Then you are angry—as if you have been cheated, as if life has

betrayed you, as if it is against you, partial, prejudiced, unjust—and there
arises great complaint in your mind. Then trust is missing.
The religious person is one who goes on doing whatsoever is humanly
possible but creates no tension because of it. Because we are very, very tiny,
small atoms in this universe. Things are very complicated. Nothing depends
only on my action; there are thousands of crisscrossing energies, and the
total of the energies will decide the outcome. How can I decide the
outcome? But if I don’t do anything, then things may never be the same … I
have to do, and yet I have to learn not to expect. Then doing is a kind of
prayerfulness, with no desire that the result should be such. Then there is no
frustration.
Trust will help you to remain unfrustrated, and tethering the camel will
help you to remain alive, intensely alive. The camel is not a fixed entity; it
is not the name of a certain entity. You will have to look into the whole
context; it will go on changing. But the saying is of immense value: it is the
Sufi approach to create the third type of human being.

EXISTENCE TAKES CARE
RESPONSES TO QUESTIONS
Can one who is not enlightened live in total insecurity and not be
anxious, depressed, and miserable?
TOTAL INSECURITY AND THE CAPACITY TO LIVE IN IT ARE SYNONYMOUS WITH
ENLIGHTENMENT. So one who is not enlightened cannot live in total
insecurity, and one who cannot live in total insecurity cannot become
enlightened. These are not two things, they are just two ways of saying the
same thing. So don’t wait until you have become enlightened to live in
insecurity, no! Because then you will never become enlightened.
Start living in insecurity—that is the way toward enlightenment. And
don’t think about total insecurity. Start from where you are. As you are you
cannot be total in anything, but one has to make a start. In the beginning it
will create anxiety, in the beginning you will feel miserable—but only in
the beginning. If you can pass the beginning, if you can tolerate the
beginning, the misery will disappear, the anxiety will disappear.
The mechanism has to be understood. Why do you feel anxiety when
you feel insecure? It is not because of insecurity, but because of the demand
for security. When you feel insecure you feel anxious, anxiety arises. It is

not arising because of insecurity, it is arising because of the demand to
make life a security. If you start living insecurely and don’t demand
security, the anxiety will disappear when the demand goes. The demand is
creating the anxiety.
Insecurity is the very nature of life. It is an insecure world for a Buddha;
for a Jesus it is also insecure. But they are not anxious because they have
accepted the fact. They have become mature enough to accept a reality.
Maturity means coming to terms with reality, throwing away
dreams, and accepting the reality as it is.
This is my definition of maturity and immaturity. A person I call
immature is one who goes on fighting against reality for fictions and
dreams. This man is immature. Maturity means coming to terms with
reality, throwing away dreams, and accepting the reality as it is. Buddha is
mature. He accepts. It is so. For example, although there is death, an
immature person goes on thinking that everyone may die but he is not going
to die. An immature person goes on thinking that by the time he dies
something will be discovered, some medical elixir, which means he will not
die. An immature person goes on thinking that it is not the rule to die. Of
course, many have died, but in everything there are exceptions, and he goes
on thinking that he is an exception.
Whenever someone dies you feel sympathetic, you feel, “Poor man, he
has died.” But it never comes to your mind that his death is your death also.
No, you bypass it. You just don’t touch such delicate matters. You go on
thinking that something or other will save you—some mantra, some
miracle-maker guru. Something will happen and you will be saved. You are
living in stories, children’s stories. A mature person is one who looks at the
facts and accepts that life and death are together. Death is not the end, it is

the very peak of life. It is not something like an accident which happens to
life, it is something which grows in the very heart of life. It grows and
comes to a peak. So he accepts and then there is no fear of death. He
accepts that security is not possible. You can create a façade, you can have a
bank balance, you can donate much money to have some security in
heaven, you can do everything, but deep down you know nothing is really
secure. The bank can cheat you, and no one knows that the priest is not a
cheat, the greatest cheat. No one knows. They write letters …
In India, there is a Mohammedan sect, the head priest of which writes
letters to God. You donate a particular amount of money and he will write a
letter. The letter will be put with you in your tomb, in your grave. It will be
put with you so you can produce the letter. The money goes to the priest,
the letter goes with you. But nothing is secure.
A mature person comes to terms with reality, he accepts it as it is. He
doesn’t demand. He is not a demander. He doesn’t say, “It should be so.”
He looks at the facts and says, “Yes, it is so.” This coming to terms with
reality will make it impossible for you to be miserable—because misery
comes when you demand. Really, misery is nothing else than an indication
that you are moving against reality. And reality cannot be changed by you,
you will have to be changed by reality. You will have to come to terms. You
will have to yield.
This is what the meaning of surrender is: you will have to yield. The
reality cannot yield, the reality is as it is. Unless you yield, you will suffer.
The misery is created by you because you go on fighting. It is just as if the
current of a river is flowing toward the sea and you are trying to swim up
the current. You feel the river is against you. The river is not against you. It
has not even heard about you. It doesn’t know you at all. The river is simply

flowing to the sea. It is a river’s nature to flow to the sea, to move to the sea
and to fall into it. You are trying to move upstream.
And there may be some foolish fellows sitting or standing on the bank
who go on inspiring you: “You are doing well. You shouldn’t be worried
because sooner or later the river will have to yield. You are simply great, go
on doing it! Those who are great, they have won over the river.” There are
always foolish people who go on giving you inspiration, giving you more
enthusiasm. But no Alexander, no Napoleon, no great man, no one has ever
been able to go upstream. Sooner or later the stream takes over. But when
you are dead, you cannot enjoy the bliss that was possible while you were
alive; the bliss of surrendering, of accepting, of becoming so one with the
stream that there is no conflict.
But those foolish people on the bank will say, “You have yielded, you
are defeated, you are a failure.” Don’t listen to them, just enjoy the inner
freedom that comes with yielding. Don’t listen to them.
When Buddha stopped trying to flow upstream, all those that knew him
said, “You are an escapist. You are a failure. You have accepted defeat.”
Don’t listen to what others say. Feel the inner feeling. Feel what is
happening to you. If you feel good flowing with the stream, this is the way.
This is Tao for you. Don’t listen to anybody, just listen to your own heart.
Maturity accepts, whatsoever there is.
I have heard an anecdote. A Mohammedan, a Christian, and a Jew were
asked a question. The question was the same. Someone asked all three,
“What would you do if a tidal wave forces the ocean onto the land and you
are drowned in it?” The Christian said, “I will make the sign of the cross on
my heart, and pray to God to allow me into heaven, to open the doors.” The
Mohammedan said, “I will take the name of Allah, and will say that this is

kismet, this is fate—and drown.” The Jew said, “I will thank God and
accept his will and learn to live under water.”
This has to be done. One has to accept the will of existence, the will of
the universe, and learn how to live in it. This is the whole art. A mature
person accepts whatsoever is here, doesn’t demand, doesn’t talk about any
heaven. The Christian was doing, he was asking, he was saying, “Open the
doors of heaven.” But he was also not a pessimist who simply accepts and
is drowned. The Mohammedan was doing that. The Jew accepted,
welcomed rather, and said, “This is the will, now I must learn how to live
under water. This is God’s will.”
Accept the reality as it is and learn how to live in it with a yielding
heart, with a surrendered ego.
What is the difference between trusting and being naïve?
THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN TRUSTING AND BEING NAÏVE IS VAST, yet the dividing
line is very subtle. Being naive means being ignorant. Trusting is the most
intelligent act in existence. And the symptoms to be remembered are these:
both will be cheated, both will be deceived, but the person who is naïve will
feel cheated, will feel deceived, will be angry, will start mistrusting people.
His naïvety will sooner or later become distrust. And the person who trusts
is also going to be cheated, is also going to be deceived, but he is not going
to feel hurt. He will simply feel compassionate toward those who have
cheated him, who have deceived him, and his trust will not be lost. His trust
will go on increasing in spite of all deceptions. His trust will never turn into
distrust of humanity.
These are the symptoms. In the beginning they both look the same. But
in the end, the quality of being naïve turns into distrust, and the quality of
trusting goes on becoming more trusting, more compassionate, more

understanding of human weaknesses, human frailties. The trust is so
valuable that one is ready to lose everything, but not the trust.
Whenever I trust, whatever happens is beautiful. When doubt arises, I am
in pain. Just the fact of trusting  … is enough to make me feel light,
happy. Why then do I still doubt?
IT IS ONE OF THE MOST FUNDAMENTAL QUESTIONS OF LIFE. The question is not
only about trust and doubt: the question is rooted in the duality of the mind.
It is so with love and hate, it is so with body and soul, it is so with this
world and the other world.
Mind cannot see the one. The very process of mind divides reality into
polar opposites—and reality is one, reality is not two, reality is not many. It
is not a multiverse, it is a universe.
This existence is an organic whole. But the mind basically
functions by dividing, the mind functions like a prism.
This existence is an organic whole. But the mind basically functions by
dividing, the mind functions like a prism. If you pass a ray of light through
the prism, it is immediately divided into seven colors. Before passing
through the prism it was simply white, pure white; after the prism it is the
whole rainbow.
Mind divides reality into two. And those two are bound to be always
together, because in existence itself they are indivisible. The division exists
only in mind, only in your thought.
You say: “Could you talk more about trust? Whenever I trust, whatever
happens is beautiful…” But your trust is nothing but the other pole of
doubt; it cannot exist without doubt. Your trust is simply an antidote to

doubt. If doubt really disappears, where will your trust be? What need will
there be of trust? If there is no doubt then there is no trust either.
And you are afraid to lose trust, you cling to trust. In clinging to trust
you are clinging to doubt too, remember. You can have both, but you can’t
have one. Either you have to drop both or you have to go on keeping both;
they are indivisible, two sides of the same coin. How can you avoid the
other side? It will always be there. You may not look at it, that makes no
difference. But sooner or later you will have to.
Another part of mind is: it gets bored with anything very soon. So if you
are in trust, soon it gets bored with it. Yes, it is beautiful, but only in the
beginning. Soon the mind starts hankering for something new, for
something different, for a change. Then there is doubt, and doubt hurts;
again you start moving toward trust. And trust becomes boring, and you
have to fall into the trap of doubt … One goes on this way like a pendulum
of a clock: right, left, right, left, one goes on moving.
You will have to understand that there is a trust totally different from
what you have known up to now as trust. I am talking about that trust. The
distinction is very delicate and subtle, because both words are the same. I
have to use the language that you use. I cannot create a new language; it
will be useless because you won’t understand it. I cannot go on using your
language in the same sense you use it, because then it will also be useless: I
will not be able to express my experience, which is beyond your language.
So I have to find a middle point; I have to use your language, your words,
with new meanings. That compromise is bound to be there. All the buddhas
had to do that much.
I use your words with my meanings. Hence, be very alert: when I say
“trust” what I mean is totally different from what you mean when you use
the same word. When I say “trust” I mean the absence of the duality of

doubt and trust. When I say “love” I mean the absence of the duality of love
and hate. When you use the word “trust” it means the other side of doubt;
when you use “love” it means the other side of hate. But then you are
caught in a duality, in a double bind. And you will be crushed between the
two; your whole life will become a life of anguish.
You know trust is beautiful, but doubt arises because your trust is not
beyond doubt. Your trust is against doubt, but not beyond. My trust is a
transcendence; it is beyond. But to be beyond you have to remember: both
have to be left behind. You can’t choose. Your trust is a choice against
doubt; my trust is a choiceless awareness. In fact, I should not use the word
trust; it confuses you. But then what to do? What other word to use for it?
All words will confuse you.
I should not be speaking really, but you would not be able to understand
the silence either. I am speaking in order to help you to become silent. My
message can be delivered only in silence. Only in silence, the
communion … But before that becomes possible, I have to communicate to
you, persuade you for it. That can be done only through your words. But
one thing, if remembered, will be of immense help: I use your words, but
with my own meanings—don’t forget my meanings.
Go beyond doubt and trust, then you will have a new taste of trust—
which knows nothing of doubt, which is absolutely innocent. Go beyond
both, then simply you are left, your consciousness, without any content.
And that’s what meditation is all about. Trust is meditation.
Don’t repress your doubt. That’s what you go on doing. When you listen
about the beauties of trust, the wonders of trust, the miracles of trust, a great
longing, a great desire, a great greed arises in you to attain it. And then you
start repressing doubt; you go on throwing doubt deep into the unconscious
so that you need not encounter it. But it is there. And the deeper it is, the

more dangerous it is, because it will manipulate you from the background.
You will not be able to see it, and it will go on influencing your life. Your
doubt will be more potent in the unconscious than in the conscious. Hence,
I say it is better to be a doubter, it is better to be skeptical knowingly,
consciously, than to be a believer and unknowingly, unconsciously
remaining a doubter.
All believers live with closed eyes and closed ears and closed
hearts—they have to, because the moment they open their eyes
there is fear. Who knows what they are going to see?
All believers doubt, hence they are so afraid of losing their trust. Their
trust is poor, their trust is impotent. Hindus are afraid of reading the
scriptures of the Buddhists, Buddhists are afraid of reading the scriptures of
the Christians, Christians are afraid of reading the scriptures of other
religions. The atheist is afraid to listen to the mystic, the theist is afraid of
listening to the atheist. From where does all this fear come? Not from the
other: it comes from your unconscious. You know perfectly well—how can
you avoid knowing it? You may like to forget, but you cannot—it is there!
Vaguely you always feel it, the doubt is there, and anybody can provoke it.
It may have become dormant, it can become active again; hence the fear of
listening to something that goes against your belief.
All believers live with closed eyes and closed ears and closed hearts—
they have to, because the moment they open their eyes there is fear. Who
knows what they are going to see? It may affect their belief. They cannot
listen, they cannot afford to listen, because something may go deep into the
unconscious and the unconscious may be stirred. And it is with great
difficulty that they have been able to control it. But this controlled doubt,
this repressed doubt, is going to take vengeance, it is going to take revenge

sooner or later. It will wait for an opportunity to assert itself. And it is
growing stronger and stronger inside you. Soon it will throw off your
conscious belief systems. That’s why it is so easy to change people from
Hindus to Mohammedans, from Mohammedans to Christians, from
Christians to Hindus—it is so easy.
Before the Russian revolution, just sixty years ago, the whole of Russia
was religious—in fact it was one of the most religious countries. Then what
happened? Just the revolution! The Communists came to power, and within
ten years all that religiousness evaporated. People became atheistic because
now they were taught in the schools, colleges, universities, everywhere, that
there was no God, that there was no soul.
They used to believe in God, now they started believing in no-God!
They used to believe before, they are still believing. Before doubt was
repressed, now trust is repressed. Sooner or later Russia is going to go
through another revolution—when trust will come up again and doubt will
be thrown back into the unconscious. But it is all the same. You are moving
in circles.
In India, you are great religious people. It is all rubbish. Your so-called
religion is nothing but repressed doubt. And that is so in other countries too.
This is not the way of inner transformation—repression is never the way
of revolution. Understanding, not repression: try to understand your doubt,
try to understand your trust; try to understand your no, and try to understand
your yes, and then you will see they are not separate, they are inseparable.
What meaning can yes have if the word no disappears from languages?
What meaning can no have if you don’t know anything about yes?
They are bound together, married together, they cannot be divorced. But
there is a transcendence. There is no need to divorce them, there is no need
to separate them—don’t try the impossible. Go beyond. Just watch both.

This is my suggestion: watch when doubt arises, don’t get identified
with it. Don’t get disturbed, there is nothing to be disturbed about. Doubt is
there—you are watching it, you are not it. You are just a mirror reflecting it.
And when trust arises there will be a little more difficulty in watching
because you say, “Trust makes me so happy, trust makes me feel so
beautiful.” You will jump upon it, you would like to become identified with
it. You would like to be known as one who trusts, as one who has faith. But
then you will never get out of the vicious circle. Watch trust too.
And the deeper your watching becomes  … You will be surprised:
looking deep into doubt you will find the other side is trust—as if the coin
becomes transparent and you can see this side and you can also see the
other side. Then watching trust you will be able to see doubt hiding behind
it. That moment is of great realization: when seeing that doubt is trust, that
trust is doubt, you become free from both. Suddenly, a transcendence! You
are no longer attached to either, your bondage is finished. You are no longer
caught in the duality, and when you are no longer caught in duality, you are
not part of the mind at all—mind is left far behind. You are simply a pure
consciousness. And to know pure consciousness is to know real beauty, real
blessing, real benediction.
If you want to call that state “trust,” then you will understand my
language. I call that state “trust” which knows nothing of doubt, not even a
shadow of doubt.
But of course I am using language in such a way that no linguist will
agree with. But that’s how it has always been. The mystic has something to
say to you which cannot be said. And the mystic has to communicate to you
something which is incommunicable. The problem for the mystic is: what
to do? He has something, and it is so much that he would like to share it—
he has to share it. Sharing is inevitable, it cannot be avoided. It is like a

cloud full of rainwater: it has to rain, it has to shower. It is like a flower full
of fragrance: the fragrance has to be released to the winds. It is like a lamp
in the dark night: the light has to dispel the darkness.
Whenever someone becomes enlightened, he becomes a cloud full of
rainwater. Buddha has called the man of enlightenment one who has
attained meghasamadhi—megha means cloud, samadhi means the ultimate
consciousness: one who has attained the cloud of ultimate consciousness.
Why does he use the word “cloud”?—because of this intrinsic necessity to
shower. A man who is enlightened becomes a flower which has opened.
The mystics in the East have called the ultimate opening of your heart, of
your being, of your consciousness, sahasrar—one-thousand-petaled lotus.
When this one-thousand-petaled lotus opens, how can you avoid sharing
your fragrance? It is natural, spontaneous; it starts spreading into the winds.
A buddha is a man whose heart is full of light; a buddha is one who has
become a flame, an eternal flame which cannot be extinguished. Now it is
bound to dispel darkness. But the problem is: how to give the message?
You have a language which is based on duality and he has an experience
which is rooted in nonduality. You are on the earth, he is in the sky. The
distance is infinite but it has to be bridged. And you cannot bridge it, only a
buddha can bridge it. You know nothing of the sky, you know nothing of
that inexpressible experience, that ineffable experience. But he knows both.
He knows your darkness because he has lived in that darkness himself. He
knows your misery because he has passed through it and he knows now the
bliss of ultimate attainment. Now he knows what godliness is. Only he can
manage to bridge, only he can manage to create some links between you
and him.
Language is the most important link between humanity and the buddha.
In fact, language is the most distinctive characteristic of human beings; no

other animals use language. Man is man because of language. Hence,
language cannot be avoided, it has to be used—but it has to be used in such
a way that you are constantly reminded that it has to be dropped, and the
sooner the better.
Drop both doubt and trust, belief and unbelief, skepticism and faith—
drop both! And then see something new arising in you which is not trust in
the old sense—because it has no doubt in it—which is trust in a totally new
meaning, with a totally new texture. That’s what I am talking about, that’s
what I call trust: trust which is beyond doubt and your trust, beyond both,
whatsoever you have known up to now.
There is a light which is neither your darkness nor your light, and there
is a consciousness which is neither your unconscious nor your conscious.
What Sigmund Freud and Carl Gustav Jung called conscious, unconscious,
are parts of your mind. When Buddha talks about consciousness he is not
talking in the same sense as Freud and Jung—his consciousness is the
witnessing consciousness, which witnesses the consciousness of Freud and
the unconsciousness of Freud.
Let each act, each thought, be seen. Don’t become identified with
it; remain aloof, distant, far away, a watcher on the hills.
Learn to become more of a witness, create more watchfulness. Let each
act, each thought, be seen. Don’t become identified with it; remain aloof,
distant, far away, a watcher on the hills. Then one day you will be showered
with infinite bliss.
Is it not harmful to an individual and also to society to live without the
barriers of norms? If so, then why do you preach that people should live
as they like? Mind always goes the wrong way if not restricted.

AND WHO IS GOING TO RESTRICT THE MIND? The mind of the society? Who is
going to restrict the mind? The mind of the dead people, the dead moralists,
the dead priests? Who is going to restrict the mind, you? Who are you,
except the mind?
The first thing to be understood: up to now humanity has lived under a
curse, and the curse is that we have never been allowed to trust our nature.
We have always been told, “Trust your nature and you will go wrong.”
Mistrust, restrict, control—don’t go according to your feelings. We have
been told that human nature is somehow basically evil.
This is stupid, this is foolish and poisonous. Human nature is not evil.
Human nature is divine. And if the evil has arisen, it has arisen because of
restrictions. Now let me explain it to you.
You never see animals going to war. Of course there are fights
sometimes, but they are individual fights—not world wars with all the
crows of the East fighting with all the crows of the West, or all the dogs of
India fighting all the dogs of Pakistan. Even dogs are not so foolish, neither
are crows! Yes, sometimes they fight, and there is nothing wrong in it. If
their freedom is violated, they fight, but the fight is individual. It is not a
world war.
Now what have you done? You have repressed humanity and you have
not allowed individuals to be angry sometimes—which is natural. The
ultimate total result is that everybody goes on gathering his anger, goes on
repressing the anger—then one day everybody is so full of poison that it
explodes in a world war. Every ten years a world war is needed. And who is
responsible for these wars?—your so-called saints and moralists, do-
gooders, the people who have never allowed you to be natural.
Have you ever seen any dog killing another dog? Yes, they fight
sometimes—but just fight. Never has a dog killed another dog, unless it has

been trained by a man to do it. Man is the only animal who kills another
man. No crow kills other crows, no lion kills other lions. Man is the only
species of animal who routinely kills its own kind. What has happened to
man? Has he fallen lower than the animals?
Then who is responsible? One thing is missing from the animals: they
don’t have saints, moralists; priests, Christian and Hindu and Mohammedan
and Jaina they don’t have. They don’t have temples, mosques, Bibles, and
Vedas, that’s all! That is the only difference.
There are still a few primitive societies where, down through the ages,
murder has never happened because nobody has poisoned their minds for
morality, nobody has trained them to be moral. They are natural people.
When you are natural you function harmoniously. Sometimes you become
angry, but that is natural—and it is momentary.
A person who never becomes angry and goes on controlling his
anger is very dangerous. Beware of him, he can kill you!
A person who never becomes angry and goes on controlling his anger is
very dangerous. Beware of him, he can kill you! If your husband never
becomes angry, report him to the police. A husband who sometimes
becomes angry is just a natural human being, there is no fear about it. A
husband who never becomes angry will one day suddenly jump and
suffocate you, and he will do it as if he is possessed. Murderers have been
telling the courts down through the ages, “We committed the crime, but we
were possessed.” Who possessed them? Their own unconscious—repressed
unconscious—exploded.
Have you watched a simple fact? If you have a picture of a beautiful
bitch and bring it to a dog, he will not be interested at all. Dogs are not
playboys. Not that they don’t love bitches, they love them tremendously,

but they will not be interested in a picture, in pornography—because to
create pornography you need saints. First repress the sexual instinct, the
natural instinct, and tell people that it is wrong and evil. When they repress
their sexual instinct, the repressed instinct finds outlets. Now it is difficult
to go and watch a beautiful woman passing by on the road. Then what to
do? Lock yourself in your room and look at the Playboy magazine. That is
safer, nobody comes to know. You can hide your Playboy magazine in the
Bible and you can pretend you are reading the Bible.
Only man is pornographic. No other animal is pornographic. These are
simple facts.
Who has made man pornographic? Primitive peoples are not interested
in pornography–still are not. Women are naked and move naked without
any fear. And what type of “civilization” do you say you are living in? A
woman cannot pass through the streets without being pinched on the
bottom, without being treated inhumanely. A woman cannot walk in the
night alone—and this is civilization? And people are just obsessed with sex
twenty-four hours a day.
Who has given this obsession to man? Animals are sexual but not
obsessed; they are natural. When sex becomes an obsession, it takes
perverted forms; and these perverted forms are rooted in the moralizers and
their teachings.
The so-called religious people have never trusted human nature. They
talk about trust, but they have never trusted existence. They trust rules,
laws; they never trust love. They talk about God, but the talk is just empty
talk. They trust in the police, in the courts. They trust in hellfire. They trust
in creating fear and in creating greed. If you are saintly and good and moral,
you will have heaven and all the pleasures of paradise, firdaus. Or, if you

are not moral, then you will suffer hellfire—and eternally, remember,
forever and forever.
These are fear and greed. They have been manipulating the human mind
through fear and greed. And they want you to become free of fear and greed
—and their whole teaching is rooted in it. They don’t trust.
I trust you and I trust your nature. I trust animal nature. If nature is
allowed its own course, yes, there will be a little anger sometimes and there
will be a little flaring up too, but nothing is wrong in it. It is human and it is
beautiful. But there will be no war.
Psychologists say all your weapons are phallic. Because you could not
penetrate a woman’s body, you penetrate somebody’s body with a sword.
The sword is a phallic symbol. It is beautiful to love a woman, but to
penetrate somebody’s body with a sword is ugly. But this is how things
have been.
You have lived with barriers and with norms. What has
happened? Look at the state of humanity today: it is a neurotic
earth, a great madhouse.
You ask me: “Is it not harmful to an individual and also to society to
live without the barriers of norms?” You have lived with barriers and with
norms. What has happened? Look at the state of humanity today: it is a
neurotic earth, a great madhouse. This is what has happened because of
your norms, idealism, perfectionism, morality; this has happened because of
all your commandments. The whole earth has turned into a neurotic camp, a
big madhouse. And still you are afraid, and still you go on. This is a vicious
circle.
It is as if you make a person fast and when he fasts of course he
becomes hungry, and he starts looking obsessively for food. Then, thinking

and seeing that he has become obsessed with food, you put him in chains,
because otherwise he will break into somebody’s kitchen. Now you put him
in chains because you say that if he is not put in chains, he is dangerous—
he can break into somebody’s kitchen, he cannot be relied upon. Then you
put him in chains and you continue forcing him to fast. And then you
become more and more afraid because he is going mad. This is a vicious
circle. In the first place, why has he become so obsessed with food? Your
disciplining him too much with fasting has created this illness. Fasting is
not natural.
Yes, sometimes it happens in animals, but they don’t believe in fasting,
they don’t have a philosophy of fasting. Sometimes it happens. One day the
dog feels sick and he will not eat. This is natural. He simply does not eat
because he does not feel like eating. He moves with his feeling, it is not a
rule. Nobody has taught him to fast. In fact he will go and eat grass and
vomit; the grass functions and helps him to vomit. He will vomit. Nobody
has taught him. And he will not eat unless the desire to eat arises again. He
moves with nature. When he feels like eating, he eats; when he does not
feel like eating, he does not eat. This is what I would call real life.
Sometimes when you feel like not eating, don’t eat. I am not against
fasting. I am against the philosophy of fasting. Don’t make a rule that every
Sunday you have to fast. That is foolish, because how can you decide that
every Sunday you will not feel like eating? Sometimes it may be Friday
when you don’t feel like eating. Then what will you do? You will force
yourself to eat because it is Friday. When you feel like eating, eat. When
you don’t feel like eating, don’t eat. Move with your feeling, and by and by
you will be in tune with your nature.
To me, to be in tune with nature is to be religious. My definition of
religion is to be in tune with nature. And that is the meaning of the Indian

word “dharma”; it means nature, intrinsic nature. Trust nature and don’t
violate it.
But you have been taught to violate it, so when people who have lived
starved lives come here, to this place—which is a totally different
phenomenon, they have never seen a place like this, no ashram like this has
ever existed—they are very surprised. They come here to see sad people,
dead people—dragging themselves around somehow, chanting mantras,
reading books—and when they see people dancing, men and women
dancing together, holding hands; people hugging each other, people so full
of love and joy, they say, “What type of religion is this? Religion has to be
of the cemetery, it cannot be of life. Religion has to be negative. Men and
women holding hands? This is dangerous. We cannot trust men, we cannot
trust women. This is dangerous; this is playing with fire. Create restrictions,
make Great Walls of China!”
I trust nature. I don’t trust your laws. Your laws have corrupted
the whole of humanity. Enough is enough!
No, I trust nature. I don’t trust your laws. Your laws have corrupted the
whole of humanity. Enough is enough! The time has come. Now all the old,
rotten religions have to be burned completely and a totally new concept of
religion has to arise—life-affirmative, a religion of love and not of law, a
religion of nature and not of discipline, a religion of totality and not of
perfection, a religion of feeling and not of thinking. The heart should
become the master, and then things settle on their own.
If you can trust nature, by and by you become quiet, silent, happy,
joyful, celebrating—because nature is celebrating. Nature is a celebration.
Look all around. Can you see any flower which looks like your saints? Can
you see any rainbow which looks like your saints—or any cloud, or any

bird singing, or the light reflecting in the river, or the stars? The world is
celebrating. The world is not sad. The world is a song, an utterly beautiful
song, and the dance continues. Become part of this dance and trust your
nature.
If you trust your nature, by and by you will come closer to the cosmic
nature. That is the only way. You are part of the cosmic. When you trust
yourself, you have trusted the cosmic in you—through that goes the way.
From that small thread, you can reach to the very goal. Trusting yourself,
you have trusted existence which has made you. Not trusting yourself, you
have distrusted existence which has made you.
Who has given you sex? Of course existence has given you sex. And
who has taught you brahmacharya and celibacy? Your so-called saints. Your
saints are against existence. Who has given you hunger? Existence. And
who has taught you fasting? Your saints.
I am for life and against your saints because your saints are against
existence. I teach you to be natural, to be spontaneous. And I don’t teach
you repression, restriction. I teach you freedom. If you restrict yourself too
much and repress yourself too much, you will die before your death, and
then you will live a stale life.
Let me tell you one beautiful story:
They tell about a wise old rabbi in the heart of Russia whose advice
was slavishly followed by the members of his synagogue. One
morning he was cornered by a troubled follower who explained, “I
invested all my savings in two hundred chickens. When I went out to
the coop this morning, a hundred of them had died. What should I
do?”
“It is the voice of the Lord,” quoth the rabbi. “Say a prayer.
Then double the sales price of the chickens you have left and you

will not have lost a single kopek.”
But the next morning the villager was back to report, “Another
fifty of my chickens perished last night.”
“The ways of the Lord are sometimes mysterious,” said the
rabbi. “The fifty chickens that have survived are obviously the finest
and the most valuable of the flock. Say another prayer of thanks and
again double the sales price and you will not have lost a single
kopek.”
Alas! The next morning the last fifty chickens had bitten the dust.
“Now what should I do?” wailed the villager.
“My son,” quoth the rabbi, “I have lots more invaluable advice I
could give you, but what use would that be to you? You have no
more chickens.”
When I look at your so-called religious people, I see they have no more
life. No advice can be of any help to them. They are dead people. They
should really be in their graves. They are walking illegally. They are ghosts;
they are living a posthumous existence. They have committed suicide and
are still walking and moving. I feel sorry for them, but these people are
dangerous too because they go on doing the same to others that has been
done to them by others. They go on teaching the same nonsense to other
people. They go on crippling small children, paralyzing new life springs,
poisoning new wells. That’s what they can do. That’s all that they know.
They have been unable to live; they make others unable to live.
Life is the real church of God. Forget all about God and nothing is
lost, but start destroying life and everything is lost—because life
is God.

Watch. Never get into the trap of a man who is dead. It is better to be
irreligious. It is better not to believe in God and not to go to the church and
the mosque and the temple, but be alive—because life is the real church of
God. Forget all about God and nothing is lost, but start destroying life and
everything is lost—because life is God.
I teach you life, love, because that’s how I see God is, and these
bondages that have been created by religion are just your idea. If you
become aware, you can drop them immediately, instantly.
“How come,” the hostess of a kid’s birthday party asked a little girl
in attendance, “your younger brother is so shy? He has not moved
from that corner all afternoon.”
“He is not shy at all,” answered the little girl. “He has never
had on a necktie before—and he thinks he is tied to something.”
All your religions are just neckties. You are not tied to anything; it is
just your idea that you are tied. Drop all discipline and all ties, and start
moving. And let God live through you; let God live through you in
freedom. Trust freedom and trust God, and you will never be a loser.
I am not saying there will always be flowers and more flowers in your
life. No, there are thorns, but they too are good. And I am not saying that
your life will always be sweet. Many times it will be very, very bitter. But
that’s how life grows, through dialectics.
I am not saying you will always be good—sometimes you will be very
bad. But one thing will be certain about you: when you are bad you will be
authentically bad; when you are good you will be authentically good. One
can trust, one can rely upon you. When you are angry, one can rely on it
that your anger is not false, not cold; it is hot and alive. And when you love,
one can rely upon you that it is warm and alive.

Remember, a person who cannot be angry cannot be loving; the roses
grow only with the thorns. If you cannot be hotly angry in some moment,
you cannot be hotly in love. Because you cannot be hot, because you cannot
be warm, you remain frozen. And if you have repressed anger too much you
are always afraid to move in love, because who knows? A man came to me
and he said he could not move into deep orgasm while making love—a
perfectly healthy young man. What has gone wrong with him? He cannot
move into orgasm, or at the most the orgasm remains only local, it does not
spread all over his body—and a local orgasm is not of much significance.
When the orgasm is total, and every fiber of your being throbs with new
life, you are refreshed, rejuvenated. For one moment you become part of
existence, part of the tremendous creativity that surrounds you. You lose
yourself, you are no longer an ego, you melt. You don’t have any
boundaries then.
I inquired about his anger. He said, “But why are you asking about
anger? Because my question is about love—I cannot love deeply.”
I said, “Forget about love, first we have to think about anger. Because if
you cannot love deeply, that means you cannot be angry deeply.”
He was surprised, but that’s how it turned out to be. From his very
childhood he had been brought up in a very religious family, and he had
always been told not to be angry, to control his anger. He has learned to
control. He has become so efficient at it that he does not even know that he
controls. He has really become a controller. Now the control has become
unconscious. He is a very controlled person. Everybody respects him; he
will succeed everywhere in society. He is a success, but in his inner life he
is a failure: he cannot even love.
I told him, “Start by being angry, because my understanding is that
when you are coming to a peak in your orgasm you cannot allow it.

Because if you allow it, you are afraid that with it maybe the anger, the
repressed anger, may also be allowed.”
He said, “What are you saying? I always dream that I have killed my
woman. I dream that I kill her, suffocate her while making love to her. And
I am afraid that if I lose control, I will not be able to resist the temptation to
suffocate and kill her.”
Now the anger has become a great force inside him. He is so afraid to
lose control … how can he love? It is impossible. And if you miss love you
will miss prayerfulness, and you will miss godliness too.
This repressive society, this repressive civilization has failed utterly. Yet
you are not aware.
I have heard a beautiful story:
In the days when Khrushchev—and somehow we miss him—was Mr.
Big in the Soviet Union, he often admitted that Stalin occasionally
treated him like a court jester or clown and ordered him, “Dance the
gopak!”
“And,” Khrushchev would add, “I danced.”
Somebody in the crowd would always cry out, “Why did you let
him make a fool of you?”
And Khrushchev would demand, sternly, “Who asked that
question? Stand up!”
Inevitably nobody answered, and after the appropriate pause,
Khrushchev would conclude: “That, comrades, is why I danced.”
Just out of fear: Stalin can kill, Stalin is death. And your priests have
been death, representatives of death not of God.
I represent life. Your priests have been in conspiracy with death and
they have crippled life. Your priests talk about God, but it seems they are

partners with the Devil. A great conspiracy, and they have destroyed the
whole human mind. They have uprooted you from your feeling part; they
have made you hung up in your head. Now you don’t know how you feel;
that’s why you cannot trust your feelings and you always have to look to
somebody to tell you what to do.
In childhood the parents go on telling you, “Do this,” and “Don’t do
that.” Then in the school you have the teacher; then in the university the
professor; then in society the boss, the politician, the leader. Everywhere
you are being told what to do and what not to do. And you are always
seeking somebody to dominate you so that you can become dependent—
because you don’t know how to get commandments from your own heart,
from your own being. You always depend on some authority outside. This
is ugly, this is miserable, this should not be.
There is a Bible inside you—the real book, the Vedas, the real
knowledge. Get your instructions from there.
I am not an authority here—at the most a midwife but not an authority. I
can help you to be reborn, but I cannot dominate you, I cannot dictate
things to you. You hanker for it—people come to me and they say, “Osho,
tell us exactly what we have to do.” But why can’t you listen to your own
heart? You have life bubbling inside you. The spring is there, the source is
there.
Go in. I can tell you how to go in, I can teach you the devices for going
in, but take your commandments from there. There is a Bible inside you—
the real book, the Vedas, the real knowledge. Get your instructions from
there.

I need to trust so badly—I want especially to be able to trust you, and I
suffer because I don’t.
*   *   *
PEOPLE WHO TRUST THEMSELVES CAN TRUST OTHERS. People who don’t trust
themselves cannot trust anybody. Out of self-trust, trust arises. If you are
distrustful about yourself, then you cannot trust me; you cannot trust
anybody. If you don’t trust yourself, how can you trust your trust? It is
going to be your trust. Maybe you trust in me, but it is your trust: you trust
in me and you don’t trust yourself. So it is not a question about me, it is a
deep question about yourself.
Who are these people who cannot trust themselves? Something has
gone wrong somewhere. First, these are the people who don’t have a very
good self-image; they are condemnatory toward themselves. They always
feel guilty and always feel wrong. They are always defensive and always
trying to prove that they are not wrong, but they feel deep down that they
are wrong. These are the people who have missed, somehow, a loving
atmosphere.
Psychologists say that the person who cannot trust himself is bound to
have some deep-rooted problem with the mother. The mother-child
relationship somewhere did not happen as it should. Because the mother is
the first person in the child’s experience; if the mother trusts the child, if the
mother loves the child, the child starts loving the mother and trusting the
mother. Through the mother the child becomes aware of the world. The
mother is the window from where he enters existence.
By and by, if there exists a beautiful relationship between the child and
the mother, a response, a deep sensitivity, a deep transfer of energies, a
flowering … then the child starts trusting others also. Because he knows the

first experience was beautiful, there is no reason to think that the second is
not going to be beautiful. There is every reason to believe that the world is
good.
If in your childhood there was a deep milieu of love around you, you
will become religious, trust will arise. You will trust, trust will become your
natural quality. Ordinarily, you will not distrust anybody unless somebody
tries hard to create distrust in you; only then will you distrust. But distrust
will be exceptional. One man deceives you and tries hard to destroy your
trust. Maybe trust in that man is destroyed, but you will not start distrusting
the whole humanity. You will say, “This is one man, and there are millions
of men. Just for one man, why distrust all?”
But if the basic trust is lacking, and something has gone wrong between
you and your mother, then distrust becomes your basic quality. Then
ordinarily, naturally, you distrust. There is no need for anybody to prove.
You distrust man, and then if somebody wants you to trust him he will have
to work hard, very hard. And even then, you will trust him conditionally.
And even then, that trust will not be very comprehensive. It will be very
narrow; it will be arrowed at one person. That is the problem.
In the old times people were very trusting. Shraddha, trust, was a simple
quality. There was no need to cultivate it. In fact, if somebody wanted to
become a great skeptic, doubting, then great training was needed, great
conditioning was needed. People were simply trustful because love
relationships were very, very deep. In the modern world love has
disappeared, and trust is nothing but the climax of love, the cream of love.
Love has disappeared. Children are born into families where the father and
mother are not in love. Children are born; the mother does not care, is not
bothered about what happens to them. In fact, she is annoyed because they
are a disturbance, and they are disturbing her life. Women are avoiding

children, and if they happen it seems like an accident. And there is a deep
negative attitude. The child gets that negative attitude; he is poisoned from
the very beginning. He cannot trust the mother.
 … A philosophy is not born out of the blue. A philosophy comes from
your own existence, your own lived experience. If the child has been deep
in love with the mother and the mother has showered her love, that is the
beginning of all trust for the future. Then the child will make more loving
relationships with women, will make more loving relationships with
friends, one day will be able to surrender to a master and, finally, will be
able to dissolve himself completely into God. But if the basic link is
missing then the foundation is missing. Then you try hard, but it becomes
more and more difficult. That’s what I feel about the questioner.
“I need to trust so badly” … yes, because trust is nourishment. Without
trust you remain hungry, you remain starved. Trust is the most subtle
nourishment for life. If you don’t trust you cannot really live. You are
always in fear; you are surrounded by death, not by life. With a deep trust
inside, the whole view changes. Then you are at home and there is no
conflict. Then you are not a stranger in the world. Then you are not an
alien, you are not a foreigner. You belong to the world, the world belongs to
you. The world is happy that you are; the world is protecting you. This
feeling of a deep protection gives courage, and gives courage to move into
unknown paths.
When the mother is in the home the child has courage. Have you
watched it? He can go out on the road, he can move into the garden, and he
can do a thousand and one things. When the mother is not there he simply
sits inside, he is afraid. He cannot go out; the protection is not there, the
protective aura is not there. The atmosphere is totally alien.

If you have lived a childhood of a deep showering of love and trust on
you, you gather a beautiful self-image about yourself. And if your parents
have been really in deep love with each other, and they were very happy
about you because you were the culmination of their love, the crescendo of
their love, the actualization of their love; if they were deep in love, then you
are the song that is born out of their love. You are the proof, the evidence
that they loved each other. You are their creation: they feel happy about
you, they accept you, and they accept the way you are. Even if they try to
help you, they try to help you in a very loving way. Even if they say
sometimes, “Don’t do this,” you don’t feel offended and you don’t feel
insulted. In fact, you feel cared about.
But when the love is missing and the father and mother go on saying,
“Don’t do this,” and, “Do this,” by and by the child starts learning that, “I
am not accepted as I am. If I do certain things, I am loved. If I don’t do
certain things, I am not loved. If I do some other things, I am hated.”
So he starts shrinking. His pure being is not accepted and loved. The
love is conditional; trust is lost. Then he will never be able to have a
beautiful self-image. Because it is a mother’s eyes which reflect you for the
first time, and if you can see happiness there, a bliss, a thrill, a great ecstasy
just watching you, you know you are valuable, you know you have intrinsic
value. Then it is very easy to trust, very easy to surrender, because you are
not afraid. But if you know that you are wrong, then you are always trying
to prove that you are right.
All argumentative people basically are people who don’t have
good images of themselves. They are very defensive, very touchy.
People become argumentative. All argumentative people basically are
people who don’t have good images of themselves. They are very

defensive, very touchy. If there is some argumentative person, and you say
that, “This thing you have done is wrong,” he immediately jumps on you,
becomes very angry. He cannot even take a small friendly criticism. But if
he has a good image about himself he is ready to listen, he’s ready to learn,
he’s ready to respect others’ opinions. Maybe they are right, and even if
they are right and he is wrong, he is not worried because that doesn’t matter.
He remains good in his eyes.
People are touchy. They don’t want criticism, they don’t want somebody
to say to them to do this; they don’t want somebody to say to them not to do
that. And these people think they cannot surrender because they are very
powerful. They are just ill, neurotic. Only a powerful man or woman can
surrender—weaklings, never. Because in surrender they think their
weakness will be known to the whole world.
They know they are weak, they know their inferiority complex, so they
cannot bow down. It is difficult for them, because bowing down will be
accepting that they are inferior. Only a superior person can bow down;
inferior persons can never bow down. They cannot respect anybody because
they don’t respect themselves. They don’t know what respect is, and they
are always afraid of surrender because surrender means weakness to them.
So if you feel it difficult to trust, then you have to go back. You have to
dig deep into your memories. You have to go into your past. You have to
clean your mind of the past impressions. You must be having a great heap
of rubbish from your past; unburden it. This is the key to do it: if you can
go back not just as memory, but as a reliving.
Make it a meditation. Every day, in the night, for one hour just go back.
Try to find out all that has happened in your childhood. The deeper you can
go the better—because we are hiding many things that have happened, but
we don’t allow them to bubble up into consciousness. Allow them to

surface. Going every day, you will feel deeper and deeper. First you will
remember somewhere when you were at the age of four or five, and you
will not be able to go beyond that. Suddenly, a China Wall will face you.
But go. By and by, you will see that you are going deeper: three years, two
years.
People have reached to the point where they were born from the womb.
There have been people who have reached into the memories of the womb,
and there are people who have reached beyond that, into the other life when
they died.
But if you can reach to the point where you were born, and you can
relive that moment, it will be of deep agony, pain. You will almost feel as if
you are being born again. You may scream as the child screamed for the
first time. You will feel suffocated as the child felt suffocated when for the
first time he was out of the womb—because for a few seconds he was not
able to breathe. There was great suffocation: then he screamed and the
breath came, and his passages became open, his lungs started functioning.
You may have to move to that point.
From there you come back. Go again, come back, every night. It will
take at least three to nine months, and every day you will feel more
unburdened, more and more unburdened, and trust will arise
simultaneously, by the side. Once the past is clear and you have seen all that
has happened, you are free of it. This is the key: if you become aware of
anything in your memory, you are freed from it. Awareness liberates,
unconsciousness creates a bondage. Then trust will become possible.
Psychologists have come across this—that love is food. Just twenty
years ago, if somebody had said that love was subtle vitality, then scientists
would have laughed. They would have thought, “You are a poet, you live in
illusion and dreams. Love and food?—all nonsense.” But now scientific

researchers say, “Love is food.” When a child is given food, that nourishes
his body; and if love is not given, then his soul is not nourished. His soul
remains immature. Now there are ways to measure whether a child is being
loved or not, whether the warmth he needs is being given to him or not. You
can give a child all the nourishment he needs, all the medical care he needs,
in a hospital. Just remove the mother; give him milk, medicine, care,
everything, but don’t hug him, don’t kiss him, don’t touch him.
Many experiments have been done. The child, by and by, starts
shrinking into himself. He becomes ill, and in most of the cases he dies, for
no visible cause at all. Or, if he survives, he survives at the minimum: he
becomes an imbecile, an idiot. He will live, but he will live just on the
fringe. He will never be deep in life; he has no energy. To hug the child, to
give your body’s warmth to him is food, is very subtle food. Now this is
being recognized, by and by.
Let me make you one prediction: after twenty or thirty years,
psychologists will come to reveal that trust is even a higher food, of a
greater potency—higher than love.… Like prayer. Trust is prayerfulness,
but it is very subtle. You can feel it. If you have trust, you will suddenly see
that with me you are going on a great adventure, and your life starts
immediately changing. If you don’t have trust, you will stand there. I go on
talking, I go on pulling you; you are stuck—somehow you go on missing
me. Let your trust arise. That trust will be a bridge between me and you.
Then ordinary words become luminous, then just my presence can become
a womb, and you can be reborn.
People who trust because they are afraid, because they want somebody
to hang onto, to cling to, they are afraid and they want somebody’s hand,
they look at the sky and they pray to God just to feel unafraid. Have you
watched? Sometimes passing through a dark street in the night you start

whistling, or you start singing—not that it is going to help. But it helps in a
way. Singing, you become warmer. Singing, you become occupied; fear is
repressed. Whistling, you start feeling good. You forget that it is dark and it
is dangerous, but it makes no real change in reality. If there is fear and
danger it is still there. In fact, it is more, because a person who is engaged
in singing can be robbed more easily because he will be less alert. He will
be less cautious while whistling. He is creating an illusion around him with
whistling. If your trust arises out of fear, it is better not to have that trust. It
is false. I have heard …
Mulla Nasrudin climbed into a barber’s chair and asked, “Where is
the barber who used to work on the next chair?”
“Oh, that was a sad case,” the barber said. “He became so
nervous and despondent over poor business, that one day when a
customer said he did not want a massage, he went out of his mind
and cut the customer’s throat with a razor. He is now in the state
mental hospital. By the way, would you like a massage, sir?”
“Absolutely!” said Mulla Nasrudin.
Out of fear you can say “absolutely!” but that will not be trust. Trust is
born out of love, and if you find that you cannot trust, then you have to
work hard. You have a very loaded past, wrongly loaded. You have to clean
it, clear it.
What does the phrase “existence takes care” mean?
WE ARE PART OF EXISTENCE, WE ARE NOT SEPARATE. Even if we want to be
separate, we cannot be. Our life is part of being together with existence.
And the more you are together with existence, the more alive you are.

That’s why I insist continually to live totally, to live intensely, because the
deeper your living is, the more you are in contact with existence. You are
born of it; every moment you are renewed, rejuvenated, resurrected by each
of your breaths, by each of your heartbeats—existence is taking care of you.
But we are not aware of our own being, we are not aware of our own
breathing. Gautama the Buddha gave to the world a tremendously simple,
but immensely valuable, meditation—Vipassana. The word vipassana
simply means watching your breath—the coming of the breath in, and the
going of the breath out. People used to ask Buddha, “What will happen by
this?” He was not a theoretician. He would say to them, “Just do it and see.
Experiment and report to me what happens. Don’t ask me.”
Just as you start watching your breathing, you start seeing a great
phenomenon—that through your breath, you are continuously connected
with existence, uninterruptedly—there is no holiday. Whether you are
awake or asleep, existence goes on pouring life into you, and taking out all
that is dead.
Carbon dioxide is dead, and if it accumulates in you, you will be dead.
Oxygen is life, and you need continuously that the carbon dioxide be
replaced by fresh oxygen. Who is taking care? Certainly you are not taking
care! If you were taking care, you would have been dead long ago; you
would not have been here to ask the question. You would have forgotten
sometimes to breathe, or sometimes the heart would forget to beat,
sometimes the blood would forget to circulate inside you—anything could
go wrong. There are a thousand and one things in you which could go
wrong. But they are all functioning in deep harmony. Is this harmony
dependent on you?
When I say, “existence takes care,” I am not talking philosophy.
Philosophy is mostly nonsense. I am simply talking an actual fact.

So when I say, “existence takes care,” I am not talking philosophy.
Philosophy is mostly nonsense. I am simply talking an actual fact. And if
you become consciously aware of it, this creates a great trust in you. My
saying to you, “existence takes care,” is to trigger a consciousness that can
bring the beauty of trusting in existence. I don’t ask you to believe in a
hypothetical God, and I don’t ask you to have faith in a messiah, in a savior;
these are all childish desires to have some father figure who takes care of
you. But they are all hypothetical. There has not been any savior in the
world.
Existence is enough unto itself. I want you to inquire into your
relationship with existence, and out of that inquiry arises trust—not belief,
not faith. Trust has a beauty because it is your experience. Trust will help
you to relax because the whole existence is taking care—there is no need to
be worried and to be concerned. There is no need to have any anxiety, no
need of any anguish, no need of what the existentialists call angst.
Trust helps you to relax, it helps you to let go, and the let-go prepares
the ground for witnessing to come in. They are related phenomena.
Three gray-haired mothers, Mrs. Fletcher, Mrs. Cornfield, and Mrs.
Baum, were sitting in a Catskill hotel bragging about their children.
“My son is a doctor,” said Mrs. Fletcher, “and he’s an internist,
a surgeon, and a specialist. He makes so much money, he owns an
apartment building on Park Avenue in New York.”
“That’s nice,” said Mrs. Cornfield. “My son is a lawyer. He
handles divorces, accidents, tax cases, insurance. He is so
successful, he owns two apartment buildings on Fifth Avenue.”
“Ladies,” announced Mrs. Baum, “you should both be proud to
have such successful sons. My boy, I have to tell you the truth, is a

homosexual.”
“That’s a shame,” said Mrs. Cornfield. “And what does he do
for a living?”
“Nothing,” said Mrs. Baum. “He has two friends: one is a
doctor who owns an apartment building on Park Avenue, and the
other is a lawyer who owns two apartment buildings.”
Existence takes care.
I am in deep confusion about trust and action. Part of me says, “If you sit
back, nothing will happen. God helps those who help themselves,” while
another part of me says, “Don’t do anything. Don’t push the river. Just
trust and everything will be all right.” I am neither trusting enough nor
active enough. I am caught between the two, or move from one position to
the other. Can you say something about this please?
TRUST DOES NOT MEAN THAT EVERYTHING WILL BE ALL RIGHT. Trust means
everything is already all right. Trust knows no future; trust knows only the
present. The moment you think of the future, it is already distrust.
The moment you start thinking, “Everything will be all right if I can
trust,” your mind is active, you are not trusting. You are simply trying to
manipulate existence, now through passivity, but the manipulation is there.
Inactivity is not trust. If this motive is there, that “Everything has to be all
right for me,” you are watching by the corner of the eye. You have not yet
understood what trust is.
You are hanging between activity and inactivity, and activity and
inactivity are just two aspects of the same coin. They are not opposites, they
are complementaries. And you will go on hanging between those, wavering

between those two, because when you will do something, sooner or later
you will get tired.
Each action brings tiredness, and then one starts hoping that something
will happen through inaction. If you are in inaction, through inaction you
will get bored sooner or later. Every inactivity bores, and then you move to
action. This is the duality of action and inaction. You have not yet known
what trust is.
Trust is neither action nor inaction. Trust can act, trust can be inactive.
Trust simply means all is already right; there is no need to hanker for
something else. “A” need not be “B.” Whatsoever you are, you are, and it is
good. Relaxing into it does not mean becoming inactive—because you may
be an active person, so if you relax in it, great activity will be released. Or
you may be an inactive person: if you relax in it, great inactivity may be
released. But that has nothing to do with you. You are not deciding whether
to be active or inactive; you are simply relaxing into whosoever you are.
Then whatsoever happens happens, whatsoever is happening is happening,
and all is good, because God is.
I am not saying, let me repeat again, that you will necessarily become
inactive, no. Lao Tzu will become inactive, Krishna will not become
inactive, but both are men of trust. Then where do they meet?—because
their personalities are totally different, not only different but diametrically
opposite. Krishna lives a life of intense activity and Lao Tzu lives a life of
tremendous passivity, but both are men of trust.
Lao Tzu has trusted and relaxed and this is what he finds happening to
him, that he falls deeper and deeper into passivity. He becomes just a
presence, a silent presence. If something happens at all through him, it is
action through inaction. Remember these words: action through inaction. If

something at all happens through him, he is just a catalytic agent. It happens
through his presence, not through his activity.
Just the opposite is the case with Krishna: he is all activity. He is also a
man of trust. He has relaxed into himself and in that very relaxation he has
exploded into a thousand and one actions. If sometimes you find him
inactive, that simply means action is getting ready, action is pregnant in his
inaction.
If Lao Tzu is action through inaction, then Krishna is inaction through
action. But both are men of trust. As far as trust is concerned there is no
difference at all, both have relaxed.
When a rose relaxes it becomes a rose, and when a lotus relaxes it
becomes a lotus. Lotus is lotus, rose is rose—both are different—but as far
as their relaxation is concerned, their acceptance is concerned, it is the same
acceptance, the same being, the same trust.
Don’t start thinking that trust is synonymous with inactivity; it is not. So
simply relax into your own self.
And a third possibility is also there, because Jesus is both. Sometimes
he is active and sometimes very inactive. He is just standing between Lao
Tzu and Krishna. If Krishna is all action and Lao Tzu all inaction, Jesus is
just exactly in the middle—a great synthesis. Sometimes he is very active,
and then he goes to the mountains for forty days to fast, to sit silently with
the trees, to meditate, to be with God. Then he comes back again to the
world. He is a revolutionary, a rebel. But again and again he says to his
disciples, “Now it is enough and I would like to go into seclusion.” Again
and again he goes to meditate in the mountains, he disappears for days, and
then again he is there in the world like a flame, a torch burning from both
ends together.

All these three possibilities are there. Simply relax and let things
happen. But don’t misunderstand trust as inactivity.
That has happened in this country: trust became inactivity. This country
has thought for centuries that if you trust in God, then there is no need to do
anything. And it looks logical too: if you trust that he is the doer, then why
should you bother? You just sit silently, wait; whenever it is going to
happen, it is going to happen; and if it is not going to happen, it is not going
to happen. Why interfere? The whole country became lethargic, passive. It
has lost all luster.
And the West has taken another extreme: because God’s existence
became suspicious through scientific evolution, God is no more so certain
as he used to be, his existence is uncertain, so to trust in him may be simply
stupid. Man has to act on his own. So the West has taken just the opposite
route, to be active, constantly active—so much so that even in the night
people cannot fall asleep. The activity has become chronic; even in their
sleep they toss and turn and they talk and they dream. Their sleep is a
disturbed sleep, and many have completely forgotten how to sleep.
Insomnia is becoming almost a universal phenomenon in the West—too
much activity. Because “God is not,” so you cannot trust.
In the East, too much inactivity—because “God is,” so you need not act
—but both standpoints are utterly foolish.
Trust simply means that you relax into your nature. Whether God is or is
not has nothing to do with trust. That too has to be understood.
Whenever you use the word “trust” you always ask, “In whom?” as if
trust needs an object. No, trust does not need any object. Trust is a state of
your being; it is not object-oriented. A man who does not believe in God
can trust, and a man who believes in God may not trust; God is not so
important, not necessarily needed. For example, Buddha trusts; he does not

believe in God. Mahavira trusts; he does not believe in God. Lao Tzu trusts;
he neither believes in God nor disbelieves in God; he never talks about
God, God is almost irrelevant.
Trust is your relaxed state of being. Trust means be yourself:
don’t do anything which goes against your nature.
Then trust is something which happens in you, it has no outer reference.
Trust is your relaxed state of being. Trust means be yourself: don’t do
anything which goes against your nature. You can call nature “God” or you
can call God “nature”; it is just a question of preference. If you are a theist,
call nature “God”; if you are an atheist, perfectly good, call God “nature”—
but trust remains the very foundation of a real life.
And then whatsoever happens—action, inaction, both—allow it. Go into
it deeply, totally, wholly.

EPILOGUE
COMING CLOSE TO EMPTINESS
More frail and illusory than numbers written on water, our seeking from
the Buddha felicity in the afterworld.
Already, over the heart not a cloud is hanging, and no mountain is there
for the moon to hide behind.
In our way through this world of birth and death, we have no
companion; lonely we die, alone we are born.
The vast flood rolls onward, but yield yourself and it floats you upon it.
Who sees naught, says naught, hears naught, simply surpasses the
Buddha.
~Ikkyu
THE THINKER IS CREATIVE WITH HIS THOUGHTS. This is one of the most
fundamental truths to be understood. All that you experience is your
creation. First you create it, then you experience it, and then you are caught
in the experience, because you don’t know that the source of all exists in
you.

There is a famous parable …
Once a man was traveling, and accidentally entered paradise. In the
Indian concept of paradise there are wish-fulfilling trees, kalpatarus. You
just sit underneath them, desire anything, and immediately it is fulfilled—
there is no gap between the desire and its fulfillment. There is no gap
between a thought and a thing. You think, and immediately it becomes a
thing; the thought realizes automatically.
These kalpatarus are nothing but symbolic for the mind. Mind is
creative, creative with its thoughts.
The man was tired, so he fell asleep under a kalpataru, a wish-fulfilling
tree. When he woke up he was feeling very hungry, so he simply said, “I am
feeling so hungry. I wish I could get some food from somewhere.” And
immediately, food appeared out of nowhere, just floating in the air,
delicious food.
He was so hungry that he didn’t pay much attention to where it had
come from; when you are hungry you are not philosophic. He immediately
started eating, and the food was so delicious that he was caught up in the
food. Once his hunger was gone he looked around. Now he was feeling
very satisfied, and another thought arose in him: “If only I could get
something to drink.” There is no prohibition in paradise; immediately,
precious wine appeared.
Drinking the wine relaxedly in the cool breeze of paradise under the
shade of the tree, he started wondering, “What is the matter? What is
happening? Have I fallen into a dream, or are some ghosts around and
playing tricks with me?”
And ghosts appeared, ferocious, horrible, nauseating. He started
trembling, and a thought arose in him: “Now I am sure to be killed. These
people are going to kill me.”

And he was killed.
*   *   *
This parable is an ancient parable, of immense significance. It portrays your
whole life. Your mind is the wish-fulfilling tree, kalpataru; whatsoever you
think, sooner or later it is fulfilled. Sometimes the gap is such that you have
completely forgotten that you had desired it in the first place; sometimes the
gap is of years, or sometimes of lives, so you can’t connect the source. But
if you watch deeply you will find that all your thoughts are creating you and
your life. They create your hell, they create your heaven. They create your
misery, they create your joy. They create the negative, they create the
positive. Pain and pleasure, both are illusory; the sweet dream and the
nightmare, both are illusory.
What is meant by calling these things illusory? The only meaning is that
they are your creation. You are creating a magic world around yourself—
that’s what is meant by the word maya. Everybody here is a magician;
everybody is spinning and weaving a magic world around himself, and then
is caught. The spider itself is caught in its own web.
There is nobody torturing you except yourself. There is nobody except
yourself; your whole life is your work, your creation. Buddhism insists on
this fact very emphatically. Once this is understood, things start changing.
Then you can play around; then you can change your hell into heaven—it is
just a question of painting it from a different vision. Or, if you are too much
in love with misery you can create as much as you want, to your heart’s
content. But then you can never complain, because you know that it is your
creation, it is your painting. You cannot make anybody feel responsible for
it; the whole responsibility is yours.

Then a new possibility arises: you can drop creating the world, you can
stop creating it. There is no need to create heaven and hell, no need to
create at all. The creator can relax, retire.
That retirement of the mind is meditation. You have seen all, this way
and that. You have enjoyed and you have suffered, and you have seen the
agonies and the ecstasies: love and hate, anger and compassion, failure and
success, you have seen it all. Ups and highs, lows and downs, you have
lived it all. Slowly, slowly, this experience makes you alert that you are the
creator.
If you have been on any drug trip, you know it. The drug simply
releases your mind energy and things start happening. You are transported
into other worlds. If a person suffers from paranoia and he goes on an LSD
trip, the trip is going to be very, very horrible. He will be persecuted, he will
be surrounded by enemies, and he will suffer much. If the person is not
living out of fear but living out of love and joy, he will have beautiful
experiences. Aldous Huxley says that he lived great heavenly experiences
through LSD, but Carl Reiner says that he went through hell. And both are
right! They may think they are against each other, criticizing each other.
Reiner thinks drugs create hell—drugs create nothing; all that is created is
by your mind, drugs can only magnify it. They can exaggerate; they can
allow things to appear in a magnified form, a thousandfold bigger than they
are. Molehills are turned into mountains, that’s all. The drug can only
exaggerate; the seed is supplied by your mind.
Your whole life is a kind of drug trip. When you are under the impact of
a drug, things happen fast; immediately, they start happening. When you are
living the usual ordinary life, things take a little longer time, conventional
time, but it is the same trip. Your life and your drug experiences are not
separate, because both come out of the mind—how can they be separate?

To see this point is to allow an awakening in yourself. Then both can
disappear. You can simply let things disappear by not cooperating, by
withdrawing yourself, by becoming a simple witness, watching.
Scientists say that every day in twenty-four hours, fifty thousand
thoughts pass through the average mind. Fifty thousand thoughts are
continuously passing. You don’t allow all the thoughts to be realized; you
choose. There are good thoughts, there are bad thoughts, there are beautiful
thoughts and there are ugly thoughts—you choose.
It is almost as if you have a radio and all stations are available on the
radio. The whole noise of the world and the politicians is available on the
radio. But you choose the station; that choice is yours. Or you can choose
not to put the radio on; you can choose to turn it off, and then all that noise
disappears.
This is exactly the situation. A meditator does not want to choose any
station; he simply puts the radio off or disconnects it. And all the noise and
all the politicians and all that nonsense disappear.
But if you want to choose, you can choose; you can choose any station.
People become addicted to stations. When you enter into somebody’s room
you can see his radio. You will see the indicator on the station to which he
is addicted, whether the radio is on or not. Slowly, slowly, the radio remains
always fixed on the station he likes.
That is the situation of your mind. When I look into you, I see your
stations fixed. Somebody has decided to live in hell—his station is fixed,
and it has remained fixed for so long that now even to change to another
station is going to be difficult. It has gathered rust; maybe the dial has lost
the capacity to be moved from here to there, it may have become fixed. You
may have left it there for many, many lives; you have forgotten that other
stations are available. You think you are suffering—you have to listen to

this noise, you don’t like it at all, but what can you do? You have to listen to
it.
People become addicted to their thoughts. Then a thought comes more
often, is repeated more, creates a groove in the head, in the brain cells, and
becomes your reality. Naturally, you think you can do nothing, you are a
helpless victim.
You are not a victim at all—not a victim of fate, not a victim of God, not
a victim of the so-called theory of karma. These are just tricks, strategies to
avoid seeing the fundamental law of life.
When you are suffering you try to find some explanations. There are
beautiful explanations available. Somebody says, “This is how God wants it
to be, so what can you do? You have to live it. It is not in your hands. Man
is impotent and God is omnipotent. What can you do? All that is possible
for you is either to suffer happily or to suffer unhappily. Suffering is going
to be there, so just suffer as happily as possible, as ungrudgingly as
possible, without complaint. Suffer with acceptance, that’s all you can do.
Or you can go on crying and weeping, but nothing can change it. It is
beyond you.”
This explanation helps people. Then they remain fixed in their groove.
They forget that they can change anything. A man like Buddha declares that
man is free—that is Buddhism’s greatest contribution to human
consciousness and the history of human consciousness, that man is utterly
free, that man is freedom. There is no God who is programming you; there
is no programming at all. You are programming yourself; you are a self-
programmer.
There are other explanations. There are those who don’t believe in God,
but they believe in karma. You are suffering, you are in anguish, and you
say, “What can I do? It is my past life’s karma; I have to go through it.”

This helps acceptance; it is a consolation. It gives you a certain kind of rest,
it makes life a little easier; otherwise it will be too difficult, it will be
impossible, it will be unbearable. Once you accept the idea that your life is
predetermined in some way or other, whether by God or karma—karma is
another God—it is the same strategy, with no difference. Only the words are
different. “Now nothing can be done. You have done something wrong in
the past life, there is no way to undo it now; the only way is to go through
it. Go through the worst, and hope for the best.” You remain in a kind of
consolation that something good will come out of it sooner or later.
This is why people are in so much misery—because of their
explanations. If you have explained your misery, how are you going to
transform it? If you have a certain explanation that helps you to accept it as
it is, then there is no possibility of transformation. But all theories and
consolations are tranquilizers, deadly poisonous. You are the sole agent, the
sole creator of your life—nothing else determines it. Each moment you are
in control. You just have to see it and you have to try a few changes, and
those changes will help you to become more aware.
One day when you are feeling very miserable just sit silently in the
chair, relax, and start enjoying. Just do the opposite, don’t get into the trap
of the misery: start smiling. In the beginning it will look false. Just get
euphoric, blissed out. Start swaying, as if there is a great dancing energy in
you, and you will be surprised that slowly, slowly, that which had started
almost like a pretension is becoming real. The misery is disappearing; it no
longer has its hold on you, something has changed. Laughter is arising in
you. Your old habit will say, “What are you doing? What about karma? This
is not supposed to be; you should not do such things. This is against all
philosophy and metaphysics. Go back into the old groove. This is not right,
you are cheating; you have to be miserable when there is misery. This is

inauthentic, this is pseudo.” The mind will bring in all kinds of things to
create the disturbance again. But insist: “This time I am going to drop out of
the theory of karma. I am going to jump out of the wheel! This time I am
going to choose the polar opposite.”
Start dancing, singing, and you will be surprised. You will experience a
great truth: that it changes, that the climate changes, that the clouds
disappear, that it becomes sunny, and you are different. Sometimes when
you are feeling very happy do the opposite: become miserable for no reason
at all, just to become miserable. In the beginning it will again be just acting.
But soon you will get into the act, because all that you are doing is nothing
but an act, so it can be changed.
What you call your authentic life is also just an act. Maybe you have
practiced it for a long time, but it is an act. So it can be changed for another
act. And once you have learned the trick of changing your acts from one to
another, you will be able to see your freedom. You are something beyond
the acts.
The function of a master is to destroy all your acts and to make you
capable of being free. You are free, utterly free. Experience your freedom,
and slowly, slowly get out of the old ruts.
It happened …
A professor of English language was invited to speak on the philosophy
of life. He was a retired professor, well-known, but he wanted to make a
little change in the title of the lecture. He said, “Let it be called ‘The
Grammar of Life.’” A professor of English language: the people who had
invited him thought, “It is right, it is the same—the philosophy of life or the
grammar of life.”
And do you know what the professor said when he spoke? He said:
“Live in the active voice, not the passive. Think more about what you make

happen than what happens to you. Live in the indicative mood, rather than
the subjunctive. Be concerned with things as they are, rather than as they
might be. Live in the present tense, facing the duty at hand without regret
for the past or worry for the future. Live in the first person, criticizing
yourself rather than finding fault with others. Live in the singular number,
caring more for the approval of your own conscience than for the applause
of the crowd. And if you want a verb to conjugate, you cannot do better
than to take the verb ‘to love.’”
This is his grammar of life. His whole life he must have been teaching
grammar, grammar, and grammar. Now it has become almost an
unconscious habit; he cannot think in any other terms.
This is how you are caught, you are caught by habits. There is no karma
that is holding you, or if there is any karma it is nothing but your habits.
The thing that you have been doing again and again becomes almost a
determining factor in your life, becomes decisive.
But one can drop any habit. You may have been smoking for thirty years
but you can drop this cigarette, half-smoked, on the floor and never take
another cigarette in your hand. You are free. If you cannot drop it, that
simply means you are choosing not to drop it. If people say, “How can we
get out of misery?” they are simply saying, “We don’t want to get out of
misery.” They are deceiving themselves.
People come to me and they go on asking, “How to get out of this?”
And I am simply puzzled, because only they are holding themselves in it;
nobody else is there. They can come out of it just as easily. They are putting
more energy into being in it; less energy is needed to come out of it. But
they have forgotten one thing: they have forgotten their freedom.
The message of Buddhism is freedom: freedom from God, freedom
from heaven and hell, freedom from fear, freedom from the future, freedom

from all these explanations that man has created down the ages and is
burdened with and crushed by.
I have heard …
An efficiency expert died and was being carried to his grave by six
pallbearers. As they approached their destination, the lid of the
coffin popped open and the efficiency expert sat up and shouted, “If
you’d put this thing on wheels you could lay off four men!”
Just the whole life’s habit—an efficiency expert is an efficiency expert.
Don’t laugh at it, because this is what you are doing. You are living in
habits, you will die in habits, and because of these habits you will miss real
life. Real life consists of freedom. Once you know that you are free then
there is no obsession to choose this or that. You can choose not to choose.
That state is called buddhahood.
More frail and illusory than numbers written on water, our seeking
from the Buddha felicity in the afterworld.
This is an important sutra. Go slowly into it. The first thing: to ask the
Buddha to help us is foolish, for three reasons. First, he cannot. Second,
even if he could, he would not. Third, we do not need to be helped since we
are all buddhas already. Zen people say because of these three reasons, to
ask for help from the Buddha is foolish. First, he cannot. Why can he not
help? Because from his standpoint you don’t need any help at all. From his
standpoint your whole situation is ridiculous; your whole misery is false.
Rather than being kind to you, he would like to laugh at you, although he
does not laugh. He goes on showing his kindness to you, just not to offend
you unnecessarily.

But the basic thing is, from the standpoint of a buddha all your misery is
stupid. It is as if you are in a house which is on fire, and doors are open,
windows are open, you can jump out from anywhere, and you are just
sitting there and shouting, “Help me! How am I to get out of this house?
My house is on fire! Bring me maps, guidebooks; teach me techniques,
methods, to get out.” The house is on fire and you are just standing in the
middle of it. The doors are open and the windows are open, you can get out
immediately, not even a moment has to be lost. The whole situation is
ridiculous.
A buddha knows that you are all buddhas. The day a man becomes
enlightened, for him the whole world becomes enlightened. Then he can see
through and through: he can see your eternity, he can see your eternal
purity, he can see hidden inside you the source, the godliness. You are
crying and weeping, and he can see your treasure and your empire, yet you
are begging, begging for help.
The buddha cannot help you, because he can see your misery is self-
created, illusory. And he cannot help you for another reason too: the master
himself has disappeared as an ego, as a self. There is nobody who is inside;
a buddha is pure emptiness. Who is there to help you? You can take all the
help that you need, but nobody is there to help you. Let it be very clear: you
can partake of the energy of a buddha, you can eat as much of his energy as
possible, you can drink him and you can become intoxicated with him, but
he cannot do anything on his own. The door no longer exists.
A buddha is simply an availability. The master remains available in
satsang; his presence, or his absence, is there. You can take in as much as
you want, you can allow that presence to penetrate you as deeply as you
open your heart. But all depends on you. Yes, you can help yourself through

the buddha, but the buddha cannot help you. There is no activity possible on
the part of a buddha.
Sometimes when you come to me and ask, “Osho, will you help me?”
you create a problem for me. If I say I will, I am false. If I say I will not,
you are hurt, you think I am unkind, unloving. The situation is: I am
available. You can help yourself through my presence; I cannot do anything.
The master is a catalytic agent. His presence can trigger a process in you,
but he cannot be a doer. He cannot take any initiative, he cannot be a
manipulator, he cannot impose any discipline or character on you, he cannot
force you to change. All that violence is gone. Violence is a shadow of the
ego; the day the ego disappears, all violence disappears.
That’s why I say a do-gooder is not a good man. The man who is after
you and is trying to change you is not the man to be with. The man who is
hankering to change you is an egoist; he wants to make you according to his
ideas. He is dangerous, he will destroy you; he will not be helpful to you.
He will cut from you this part and that part, and he will change things in
you. He has a blueprint with him, a certain idea that has to be implemented.
He will not be bothered about you. His whole concern is with his idea; you
are just a plaything.
That’s what your so-called mahatmas go on doing. They go on giving
you patterns of life, they go on forcing things upon you: “Do this, don’t do
that. If you do this you will be rewarded, if you don’t do this you will be
rewarded. If you obey, the paradise is yours. If you disobey, then you fall
into hell.” These people are dangerous people. These are politicians, not
religious people at all. Their whole effort is to change people; they enjoy it.
But people are not things. A man is not a canvas; you cannot paint him the
way you want. The man is godly, the woman is godly; every person is

divine. Who can change a person? Just the very idea of changing a person is
sacrilegious, is a sin.
Many people come to me and they say, “Why don’t you give discipline
to your sannyasins?” Who am I to give discipline to my sannyasins? I am
available. Whatsoever they want, they can have; that is their choice and
their freedom. I am here to teach a single thing: freedom. No interference in
it. If they choose to remain in the world, fine. If they choose to get out of it,
fine. With me, all is good. But the greatest value is freedom.
A buddha cannot be asked to help you. He is help, but a passive help,
just a presence, a door. You can pass through it, but the door cannot drag
you through itself. Be aware of the fact: if you are with a real master he will
not drag you anywhere. He will shower his presence on you, he will remain
available in a thousand and one ways, but he will give you freedom to
choose, freedom to be. His presence is not active, cannot be; all action is
violent. His presence is passive. So, for three reasons, it is not possible.
Ikkyu says:
More frail and illusory than numbers written on water, our seeking
from the Buddha felicity in the afterworld.
Secondly, he would not help you because anything that is given to you
from the outside cannot become your eternal nature. Even a buddha cannot
give you the truth, because truth is not a thing to be given or taken, it is an
experience that arises in you. The buddha is an occasion where you can
bloom. But nothing can be given to you, nothing can be transferred. There
are things which are untransferable. They only arise; they grow. They are
not commodities; they grow like a fragrance grows in a flower.
Truth is your fragrance. So even if he wants, a buddha will not help you
because anything given from the outside, because it has been given from the

outside, becomes untrue. It is no longer the real gift. The real gift has to
arise in you; it has to be given birth by you, through you. At the most, the
master can be a midwife.
That’s what Socrates says he is: a midwife. The child grows in the
womb of the mother: the midwife can become an occasion to bring the child
out of the womb more comfortably, conveniently. That is the function of a
master. Godliness is growing in your womb. The master can be an occasion
to bring this birth to happen in comfort, with as little pain as possible, with
as much joy as possible, with celebration.
Thirdly, he cannot help because he sees we do not need any help. All
that we need is an awareness of our freedom, an awareness of the
fundamental law that thought creates reality, that we are creators, that each
and every one is a creator.
Never think for a single moment that God has created the world. You
have created your world. And there is not one world; there are as many
worlds as there are people here. You live in your world, your wife lives in
hers. That’s why the clash—those two worlds are continuously clashing.
They have to clash, they are overlapping. You like one thing, your woman
likes another thing. There is no way to convince each other, this way or that
—a liking is a liking. You would like to go to this movie; she wants to go to
some other movie—a liking is a liking. You are two worlds together,
overlapping, interfering with each other; hence the conflict. We don’t live in
one world. There are as many worlds as there are people.
The buddha is one who has seen the truth of it. He sees that he is the
creator of his world, and he has retired from it. He creates no more. A
buddha lives here in the world, without a world. That’s the meaning of
being a buddha: he lives in the world but there is no world for him. He lives
in the world but the world is not in him. His own creation of the world has

completely disappeared. His canvas is vacant: he creates no more, he no
longer projects any dreams.
To come close to a buddha means coming close to an emptiness; hence
the fear. One feels scared. If you look into the eyes of a buddha you will
feel utter emptiness, an abyss. You will feel that if you fall into it, you will
never reach to any bottom. There is none. There is no bottom, it is eternal
emptiness, and one falls and falls and falls. One disappears but never comes
to the bottom of it.
The buddha cannot help you because he sees your dreams. It is as if you
are asleep and you are seeing a very dangerous dream. A tiger is following
you and you are screaming, and in your sleep you shout, “Help! Help!” And
somebody is sitting by your side, awake. What do you think he is supposed
to do? Should he try to help you? Then he will be just as stupid as you are.
Then he will be as asleep as you are, or even more. He will laugh. He
knows there is no tiger; it is your creation, it is your imagination. He may
have a good laugh. But you are suffering—your tiger may be imaginary, but
for the moment your suffering seems to be true. Tears are coming, you are
shaking and trembling.
What should the man do who is awake? He cannot save you from the
tiger, because there is no tiger in the first place. But he can do one thing: he
can help you to be awake.
That’s why these sutras of Ikkyu are so depressing, you feel sad. One
woman has written a letter to me; her brother and her brother’s wife are
here and she has written, “Osho, the last time they were here you were
talking about Sufis, and they were thrilled by the talks; that’s why they have
come again. And now these Ikkyu sutras—they are sad and they create
sadness.” She has asked me to do something so that her brother and

brother’s wife don’t feel sad here. Nothing can be done. With Ikkyu, I am
Ikkyu.
But this sadness is of immense value. You are not here just to be
entertained, you are here to be enlightened. There is nothing wrong in being
entertained—if you decide to be that, fine—but then you missed a great
opportunity. You need to be enlightened. And before one becomes awake
one has to pass through many sad layers of one’s being. Layers upon layers
are there of sadness that you have repressed, because you never wanted to
be sad, you have never faced it.
A buddha brings all your sadness in front of you, because his
commitment is not to your sleep and your dreams. Maybe those dreams
sometimes are sweet, but a dream is a dream, whether sweet or bitter. Even
if it is very entertaining it is a dream, and the time is wasted.
Truth may not be very entertaining, but it is enlightening. And once you
have seen the truth, life moves in a totally new dimension. That dimension
is of blissfulness. And remember again, blissfulness does not mean
happiness, because what you mean by happiness is again entertainment.
What you mean by happiness is nothing but pleasure, sensation, thrill.
Blissfulness has the quality of peace in it, silence, stillness,
undisturbedness. There is no pain and no pleasure: that state of nonduality,
Buddha is interested in it. And, if to attain to it one has to pass through
sadness, it is worth it. Any cost is okay, because what you are going to
realize is beyond all values; it is beyond all your comprehension.
The Buddha way is the way of awakening. But you can be awake only
when your sadness is emphasized totally. Otherwise who would like to be
awake? You have to be made alert about your sadness, about your hell. You
have to be made aware of your death, of your illness. You have to be made
aware of all the agonies that you have passed through, that you are passing

through, and that you will have to pass through. This whole thing has to be
emphasized.
I have heard …
A Broadway producer decided he was fed up with the extravagant
ballyhoo in the advertising of so many shows. He decided that he
would insert a clause in his contract giving him the right to approve
all advertising for the new play he was producing.
Writer after writer prepared ads embodying the honesty and
sincerity he said he wanted in his ads. He turned them all down.
Finally, one brought in a piece of copy which read like this: “Here is
a play which combines the drama of Shakespeare, the wit of
Rostand, the strength of Tennessee Williams, the intellect of
Marlowe, and the plot mystery of Dickens. Greater than Hamlet,
more moving than the Bible, this is a play destined to live forever.”
“That’s it!” shouted the producer. “No exaggeration! Just the
simple truth!”
You are living in an exaggerated kind of hope that can be destroyed only
by an exaggerated kind of sadness. The opposite polarity has to be brought
in. You are hiding all your wounds; Buddha would like to open them all up.
Naturally, one does not like it. Seeing one’s wounds hurts. Life starts
looking very, very painful, one feels lethargic about living. Then what is the
point? One starts thinking of committing suicide.
That’s the point Buddha would like you to reach. Where you start
thinking of suicide, only then is sannyas possible, not before. When you
think the whole life is meaningless, only then your energy starts being
concentrated to one point: now some other meaning has to be searched for.
“This life has failed, in toto. Now another life has to be searched for. I have

lived outside myself and seen it is all sadness and agony. Now I have to turn
inward, a 180 degree turn.”
That’s why these sutras appear so sad. They bring the truth of your life
into focus.
More frail and illusory than numbers written on water, our seeking
from the Buddha felicity in the afterworld.
And people are so stupid that even when they come to a buddha—who
knows no future, who knows no past, who lives in the eternal moment—
they still ask about the afterlife. They want to have some felicity in the
afterworld. They are not interested in being awakened herenow, they are
interested in making some beautiful world after death.
Buddha is interested, absolutely interested, in the herenow. He wants
you to be awake herenow. But you go to him and ask, “Is the soul
immortal? Will I live after death? What will happen after death? Where do
people go?”
Buddha used to laugh at all these questions and he would simply put
them all aside. In fact, this was his usual way: whenever he would enter a
town his disciples would go around the town declaring to each and every
body, “Don’t ask these eleven questions.” And these eleven questions were
all questions of metaphysics: the afterlife, God, heaven, hell, karma, and all
that kind of garbage. Buddha used to say, “Just ask about the immediate,
that which is the question right now. Let me become the answer for that.”
People don’t want to ask that, they want to avoid it. You are in misery
and you ask, “What will happen after death?” People come to me too; they
say, “What will happen after death?” I say, “First see what is happening
before death.” They are not interested in that. Before death? Who bothers
about before death? The real question is after death.

If you can’t see what is happening now, and you don’t want to see it, the
story is going to be the same later on, too. Somebody has asked, “This
question has been pursuing me from my very childhood: How does the
stone feel inside? Inside the stone, how is it?”
Inquire first how it feels when you are a human being, because once you
were a stone, too, but then you were worried, I know—then you were
worried about how it feels to be a human. Now you are a human, you are
worried about how it feels to be a stone. Are you going to miss all the
opportunities?
And remember, it feels the same. If you can know how it feels inside
right now, you will know how it feels inside anywhere else. The inside is
the same, only outsides differ. One is a woman from the outside, another is
a man from the outside; from the inside, nobody is a man and nobody is a
woman. And the man is continuously puzzled by the woman. Even your
greatest men, so-called greatest men, are continuously puzzled by the
mystery of the woman: “How does it feel?” From the inside it is the same,
even in a stone.
The inside is always the same; only the outer periphery, the shape and
the form, is different. Inside is godliness. Godliness is inside of all things.
But these questions! Now, just think, a person has been continuously
thinking since childhood—it must have become an obsession—how it feels
inside a stone. And the person has not yet asked, “How does it feel right
now inside me?”
Buddha is interested in the immediate, the imminent. Go into the right-
here-now: enter your reality and see. And whatsoever you will know will
solve all your problems. No metaphysics is needed, meditation alone is
enough. People used to ask him, “Help us for the future life,” and he was
ready here, available here, to transform.

But you are not interested in being transformed here, because you have
a thousand other things to do. You are thinking that after life is finished and
all the beautiful things of life have been done, then resting in the grave, yes,
then one can meditate. Then one can think about great things. Why be
bothered right now? Right now there are so many things to do, so many
interesting things to do.
Buddha cannot help you for the future, because for a buddha there is no
future. The only time for a buddha is the present. He cannot help you for the
past, because there is no past. It is all one now.
Already, over the heart not a cloud is hanging, and no mountain is
there for the moon to hide behind.
If you can see it, and if you can go into the right-now of things inside
yourself this moment, you will be surprised: Already, over the heart not a
cloud is hanging, and no mountain is there for the moon to hide behind. All
is clear there! This very moment! Just you are not there. All is clear there;
just clarity, transparency, crystal clarity, and it has been so since time began.
Your inner purity is absolute, it cannot be contaminated. It is just as if a
man is asleep, you shake him and he awakes. Even while he was asleep his
capacity to awake was not destroyed. It was there; it was like a substratum.
On the top maybe there was a layer of sleep, of dreams, but deep down he
was awake. Otherwise how can you wake him just by shaking him? Just an
alarm, just somebody calling from the outside, and he opens his eyes and
asks, “Who is calling me?” He was asleep and he was dreaming a thousand
and one things, and he was utterly lost in those things. But something was
still aware.
That something is always aware. That something never loses its
awareness.

You are lost in thoughts; thoughts are dreams. You are lost in the head,
and that clarity exists in the heart. The head is your confusion, naturally:
fifty thousand thoughts passing through your head every day, it is really
always rush hour, twenty-four hours. And these fifty thousand thoughts I
am talking about are for the very, very normal average man. I am saying
nothing about the neurotics and the philosophers and the thinkers, mad
people; I am not saying anything about them, this is just average.
So many thoughts passing through the head: how can you remain clear?
So many clouds: how can you see the sun? But there is a space inside you, a
fountain of clarity: your heart. Slip out of the head and fall into the heart.
And suddenly one is aware: Already, over the heart not a cloud is
hanging … because not a single thought ever passes through the heart.
The mechanism of thought is in the head, and the mechanism of
awareness is in the heart. The heart is always aware. That’s why whenever
you do something from your heart it has a beauty, a transcendental beauty, a
grace. It has something of the divine—maybe a small thing, a small gesture,
but in that gesture godliness is revealed. And whatsoever you do from your
head is always calculated, cunning, clever, and remains profane and ugly.
Already, over the heart not a cloud is hanging, and no mountain is
there for the moon to hide behind.
There it is all clear. And both these spaces are available to you, but
somehow you are just standing by the roadside surrounded by the traffic
and the noise.
Get out of your head and get into your heart. Think less, feel more.
Don’t be too much attached to thoughts; get deeper into sensations. Just see
the change: it is only a change of gestalt. You are lost in your thoughts, you
cannot hear the birds singing—then you change the gestalt. Just the focus

changes, it is a shift. You are no longer worried by the thoughts: suddenly
all the birds are singing, the flowers blooming, the sun rays passing through
the trees and the wind playing around with the old dead leaves.
Just a shift is needed. Exactly that has to be done; hence, one who really
wants to be awakened needs to learn all the ways of sensitivity. Feel more,
touch more, see more, hear more, taste more.
Your mahatmas have all dulled your sensitivities. They have been
telling you: “Don’t taste, taste is dangerous.” They have been telling you:
“Don’t listen to music; forget your senses.” And because you have become
closed to all your senses, your feeling has disappeared, because feeling can
live only through the nourishment that your senses give it.
So when a new person comes here and sees people hugging each other,
holding hands, dancing, singing, he is puzzled, because he knows only one
kind of “ashram,” the cemetery kind, where people are dead, just sitting
under the trees, dull, not feeling anything, just chanting “Rama-Rama-
Rama.” And that chanting is just a kind of lullaby so that they can force all
their senses to fall asleep.
If you want to be aware, you have to be sensitive. You have to allow all
your senses to become aflame. Then the heart starts living. Then the lotus of
the heart opens and there is never any confusion.
In our way through this world of birth and death, we have no
companion; lonely we die, alone we are born.
Don’t get lost too much in the world of relationship, because all
relationship is dreaming. Remember your utter aloneness: Lonely we die,
alone we are born. This life is just an overnight’s stay. Don’t become too
much committed to it, don’t get too much involved. Staying overnight in a
caravanserai, you don’t get involved. You remain there for the night and

you know that in the morning you have to go, so you don’t become worried
about the caravanserai. This life is just a journey; this life is only a bridge.
Pass through it; don’t become too much involved in it. Remain aloof,
detached.
And that aloofness and that detachedness are not to be forced. If it is
forced, you have missed the point. It has to be out of your understanding. If
it is forced, it will kill your senses; if it is out of understanding, your senses
will become more alive.
The vast flood rolls onward. But yield yourself, and it floats you
upon it.
Remember, if you are not involved then there is no question of fighting,
no question of struggle. It is the involved people who struggle, because they
have certain ideas of what has to be done. They want the world to be in a
certain way; it has to be changed. They become so involved that they
cannot sleep. They have to paint the walls of the caravanserai, they have to
decorate the walls, they have to change the bed, they have to arrange the
furniture, and by the morning they have to go. The whole night is lost in
arranging and fighting and changing things.
Out of understanding, not out of enforced practicing, you start floating
with life. Then all is okay; then you don’t push the river: The vast flood
rolls onward. But yield yourself, and it floats you upon it.
If you start fighting with it you are simply fighting with yourself and
with nobody else. If you start struggling with life you will become more
and more closed—naturally, in defense. If you start struggling with life you
will be defeated, because you will dissipate your energy in fighting.
If you don’t fight with life, you float with the flow, you go with the
river, you go downstream; you don’t try to go upstream, you have no ideas,

you are simply in a kind of surrender with life—this is trust, this is
surrender. And this is it! Then a miracle happens: if you don’t fight with
life, life simply helps you, takes you on its shoulders.
Have you ever seen a dead body floating in the river? Have you watched
the secret of the dead man? When he was alive he was drowned by the
river, naturally. Maybe he didn’t know how to fight; he didn’t know how to
swim: he was drowned by the river. He must have been fighting; he must
have tried hard to get out of it: he was drowned. Now he is dead, and he is
floating on the surface. What has happened? It seems when he was alive he
didn’t know the secret. Now he knows; now the river is not drowning him.
The best swimmer is one who knows how to behave with the river as if
you are dead—as if you are dead—then the river takes you.
This is let-go: living as if dead, living with no attachment, living with no
possessiveness, living with no clinging, living with joy.
Who sees naught, says naught, hears naught, simply surpasses the
Buddha.
If you can float with the river without making a house on it, this miracle
will happen. Who sees naught … You will be able to see that which cannot
be seen. And you will be able to see that when it happens, the seer also
disappears. You will be able to see that which cannot be called the seen.
This is the trinity of experience: the knower, the known, and the
knowledge. This is the trinity of experience. If one becomes totally relaxed,
this trinity disappears. Then there is no one who is a knower and there is no
one who is known; there is simply knowing. The knower and the known
have dissolved into knowing. All nouns have dissolved into the verbs of
life.

Who sees naught, says naught … There is an experience which is not an
experience, which you cannot call an experience. Buddha never talks about
God because to talk about God is wrong, is to falsify, is to belie, is to betray.
It is something that nobody has ever seen. It is something that is seen only
when the seer has disappeared; it is something that comes to your vision
only when you are not there. It is utter unity: there is no division of the
experience and the experienced, of the observed and the observer. All
distinctions, all dualities, have disappeared. How can you say anything
about it? Says naught  … That’s why the sage says a thousand and one
things about a thousand and one things, but never says anything about the
truth. Nothing can be said about it.
The sage is the truth. You can partake of him, you can drink as much as
you want out of him, you can live in his vicinity and you can be
transformed by being close to him, but there is nothing which can be said
about truth. The Tao that can be said is not the true Tao. The truth that is
uttered becomes immediately a lie.
Who sees naught, says naught, hears naught, simply surpasses the
Buddha. Buddhahood is the absolute transcendence of all—even Buddha is
included in that “all.” One becomes a buddha only when he surpasses even
buddhahood.
Try to see it. If somebody says “I have attained buddhahood” and clings
to it as an experience, he has not yet attained; it is still a part of the world of
experience. The ego still persists, maybe it has become very subtle, but it is
there. The real buddha is one who has disappeared—disappeared as an
experiencer. That is the utter surpassing, and in that surpassing, one is God.
The God to which we have become very much accustomed is our own
imagination; it is not the true God. The God of the Christians and the
Hindus and the Buddhists is not the true God. The true God is the God

about whom never a single word has been uttered. The God of the Bible and
the Vedas and the Koran is not the true God. The true God is one about
whom there has always remained utter silence. Our Gods are our creations.
I have heard …
A woman in Manhattan died and willed her estate to God. To settle
the estate a case was filed, naming God as a party thereto. A
summons was issued and the court went through the motions of
trying to serve it. The final report stated: “After due and diligent
search, God cannot be found in the City of New York.”
But that is the kind of God people are searching for. What kind of God
are you searching for? You have a certain image in your mind, that he will
be playing on the flute, he will be like Krishna, or he will be just a
magnified form of Jesus Christ, or he will be like this or like that. You are
simply going through the empty gestures of religion; the real religion has
not possessed your life yet.
The real God cannot be imagined; the real God happens only when all
imagination has ceased to be. The real God cannot be seen; the real God can
be seen only when the seer is no more. The real God cannot become an
object—to reduce God to an object is to destroy him, is to kill him, is to
murder him. The real God always happens as the innermost core of your
subjectivity—not there, but here; not then, but now. Not out, but in. “In” is
also only for a moment. Once godliness has happened, that “in” also
disappears. Then there is nothing outer, nothing inner: all is one.
This is the function of a master: to make you alert of that which cannot
be said, of that which cannot be described. A great love is needed; a great
sympathy is needed toward the master. Only then these unimaginable
things, indescribable things, indefinable things, can be understood.

The master cannot give you godliness, but he can make your heart
aflame with a longing for it.
The young salesman was perturbed. He had lost an important sale
he had thought was in the bag. While discussing the matter with his
supervisor, the salesman shrugged his shoulders and said, “You can
lead a horse to water but you can’t make him drink.”
“For Pete’s sake!” shouted the supervisor. “Who told you to
make him drink? Your job was to make him thirsty!”
That is the job of a master; to make you thirsty for something invisible.
It is a mad kind of thirst; you cannot logically prove anything about it. It is
a kind of infection; slowly, slowly, something contagious enters your being.
The look of the master’s eye, a gesture caught in a moment when you were
utterly silent and the traffic of the mind was no longer moving—just a
pause, a silence, a period, and something starts stirring in you.
The master is there outside you. His very presence starts calling forth
something that has been asleep for long. One starts arising, one opens one’s
eyes. It is a very strange relationship to be with a master, the strangest,
because the master is not, and the disciple is too much. Slowly, slowly, the
nothingness of the master overwhelms the disciple: seeing the beauty of
nothingness, he starts dropping his somebodiness.
*   *   *
It is related that a fire broke out in a house. Within, a man was sleeping.
They tried to carry him out through the window, but could not. The man
was heavy, big, weighty. They tried through the door, but could not. He was

really fast asleep, and you know, when a man is fast asleep he becomes very
heavy; if he is awake you can carry him easily.
Have you observed the fact? Just carry a small child when he is awake,
and he is light. Carry the same child when he is fast asleep, and he is heavy.
Sleep has a quality of heaviness in it; maybe sleep is more in tune with the
gravitation of the earth, awareness is more in tune with the levitation of the
sky. These words are not used in a scientific way, just metaphorically, but
whenever a person becomes awake he becomes very light. If you have
carried somebody who is in a coma then you will know, it becomes almost
impossible to carry him.
They tried from the window, they could not. They tried through the
door, they could not. One wise man said, “Wake him up, he’ll get out by
himself.”
That’s what the purpose of a master is. By his awareness, by the impact
of his awareness, your sleeping quality slowly, slowly is dissipated,
dispersed. His light provokes your light; his silence calls forth your silence.
Remember, the master is not doing anything in particular. He is just
being here: it all happens of its own accord. But the disciple has to be very
watchful, the disciple has to be very, very attentive. The disciple has to be
very, very focused and concentrated. The disciple has to remain with
unblinking eyes. The disciple has to be almost in a kind of deep infatuation,
all alert just as when you are in love, the whole world disappears, only your
beloved is.
Unless the master is your beloved, your lover, unless your whole energy
is moving toward him, transformation will not be possible. You have to
watch every gesture, every nuance.
After Billroth, the Viennese surgeon, had told his students that a
doctor needed two gifts—freedom from nausea and power of

observation—he dipped his fingers into a bitterly nauseating fluid
and licked it off, requesting them to do the same. They did it without
flinching.
With a grin, Billroth said, “You have passed the first test well,
but not the second, for none of you noticed that I dipped my first
finger in, but licked the second.”
Yes, one has to be very, very attentive with a master to see every
gesture, because in those gestures is the real message. The way he walks,
the way he sits, the way he looks at you, the way he is. What he says is
secondary; what he is, is primary, very fundamental. So those who are lost
in their arguments and in their words and in their theories, in their
expectations, go on missing.
More frail and illusory than numbers written on water, our seeking
from the Buddha felicity in the afterworld.
Already, over the heart not a cloud is hanging, and no mountain
is there for the moon to hide behind.
In our way through this world of birth and death, we have no
companion; lonely we die, alone we are born.
The vast flood rolls onward. But yield yourself, and it floats you
upon it.
Who sees naught, says naught, hears naught, simply surpasses
the Buddha.
Surpass the Buddha! I am bent upon it here, I mean it—surpass the
Buddha, because that is the true buddhahood when you have surpassed even
the Buddha. That eternal source is available to you. You are fortunate.
Don’t miss it.

OSHO International Meditation Resort
LOCATION: Located one hundred miles southeast of Mumbai in the thriving
modern city of Pune, India, the OSHO International Meditation Resort is a
holiday destination with a difference. The meditation resort is spread over
forty acres of spectacular gardens in a gorgeous tree-lined area.
UNIQUENESS: Each year the meditation resort welcomes thousands of people
from more than one hundred countries. The unique campus provides an
opportunity for a direct personal experience of a new way of living—with
more awareness, relaxation, celebrating. And creativity. A great variety of
around-the-clock and around-the-year program options are available. Doing
nothing and just relaxing is one of them!
All programs are based on the OSHO vision of “Zorba the Buddha”—a
qualitatively new kind of human being who is able both to participate
creatively in everyday life and to relax into silence and meditation.
MEDITATIONS: A full daily schedule of meditations for every type of person
includes methods that are active and passive, traditional and revolutionary,
and in particular the OSHO Active Meditations™. The meditations take
place in what must be the world’s largest meditation hall, the Osho
Auditorium.

MULTIVERSITY: Individual sessions, courses, and workshops cover
everything from creative arts to holistic health, personal transformation,
relationship and life transition, work as meditation, esoteric sciences, and
the “Zen” approach to sports and recreation. The secret of the multiversity’s
success lies in the fact that all its programs are combined with meditation,
supporting an understanding that as human beings we are far more than the
sum of our parts.
BASHO SPA: The luxurious Basho Spa provides for leisurely open-air
swimming surrounded by trees and tropical green. The uniquely styled,
spacious Jacuzzi, the saunas, gym, tennis courts … all are enhanced by their
stunningly beautiful setting.
CUISINE: A variety of different eating areas serve delicious Western, Asian,
and Indian vegetarian food—most of it organically grown especially for the
meditation resort. Breads and cakes are baked in the resort’s own bakery.
NIGHTLIFE: There are many evening events to choose from—dancing being
at the top of the list!
Other activities include full-moon meditations beneath the stars, variety
shows, music performances, and meditations for daily life.
Or you can just enjoy meeting people at the Plaza Café or walking in the
nighttime serenity of the gardens of this fairy-tale environment.
FACILITIES: You can buy all your basic necessities and toiletries in the
Galleria. The Multimedia Gallery sells a large range of OSHO media
products. There is also a bank, a travel agency, and a cyber café on campus.
For those who enjoy shopping, Pune provides all options, ranging from
traditional and ethnic Indian products to all global brand-name stores.

ACCOMMODATIONS: You can choose to stay in the elegant rooms of Osho
Guesthouse, or for longer stays opt for one of the living-in program
packages. Additionally, there is a plentiful variety of nearby hotels and
serviced apartments.

For More Information

A comprehensive multilanguage Web site including a magazine, OSHO
Books, OSHO Talks in audio and video formats, the OSHO Library text
archive in English and Hindi, and extensive information about OSHO
Meditations. You will also find the program schedule of the OSHO
Multiversity and information about the OSHO International Meditation
Resort.
Web Sites:
http://osho.com/allaboutosho
www.youtube.com/OSHOinternational
www.Twitter.com/OSHO
www.facebook.com/OSHO.International
www.flickr.com/photos/oshointernational
To contact OSHO International Foundation:

oshointernational@oshointernational.com

Intimacy
Intuition
Joy
Maturity
OTHER TITLES
The Man Who Loved Seagulls
Life, Love, Laughter
Being in Love
Emotional Wellness
The Book of Understanding
Autobiography of a Spiritually Incorrect Mystic
The Book of Secrets
Pharmacy for the Soul
Love, Freedom, Aloneness
Meditation: The First and Last Freedom
Sex Matters
Your Answers Questioned
Osho Zen Tarot
Tao: The Pathless Path
Zen: The Path of Paradox
Yoga: The Science of the Soul
Tarot in the Spirit of Zen
Meditation for Busy People
Body Mind Balancing
Fear
Learning to Silence the Mind

About Osho
Osho defies categorization. His thousands of talks cover everything from
the individual quest for meaning to the most urgent social and political
issues facing society today. Osho’s books are not written but are transcribed
from audio and video recordings of his extemporaneous talks to
international audiences. As he puts it, “So remember: whatever I am saying
is not just for you … I am talking also for the future generations.”
Osho has been described by The Sunday Times in London as one of the
“1000 Makers of the 20th Century” and by American author Tom Robbins
as “the most dangerous man since Jesus Christ.” Sunday MiD Day (India)
has selected Osho as one of the ten people—along with Gandhi, Nehru, and
Buddha—who have changed the destiny of India.
About his own work, Osho has said that he is helping to create the
conditions for the birth of a new kind of human being. He often
characterizes this new human being as “Zorba the Buddha”—capable both

of enjoying the earthy pleasures of a Zorba the Greek and the silent serenity
of Gautama Buddha.
Running like a thread through all aspects of Osho’s talks and
meditations is a vision that encompassed both the timeless wisdom of all
ages past and the highest potential of today’s (and tomorrow’s) science and
technology.
Osho is known for his revolutionary contribution to the science of inner
transformation, with an approach to meditation that acknowledges the
accelerated pace of contemporary life. His unique OSHO Active
Meditations are designed to first release the accumulated stressed of body
and mind, so that it is then easier to take an experience of stillness and
thought-free relaxation into daily life. You can sign up for email updates
here.
Two autobiographical works by the author are available:
Autobiography of a Spiritually Incorrect Mystic
Glimpses of a Golden Childhood

Thank you for buying this
St. Martin’s Press ebook.
 
To receive special offers, bonus content,
and info on new releases and other great reads,
sign up for our newsletters.
 
Or visit us online at
us.macmillan.com/newslettersignup
 
For email updates on the author, click here.

TRUST. Copyright , 
All rights reserved. For information, address St. Martin’s Press, 175 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y.
10010.
www.stmartins.com
The material in this book is selected from various talks by Osho given to a live audience over a
period of more than thirty years. All of Osho’s talks have been published in full as books, and are
also available as original audio recordings. Audio recordings and the complete text archive can be
found via the online OSHO Library at 
 of Osho International Foundation, 
Cover design by Olga Grlic
Cover image © Joat/Shutterstock.com
The Library of Congress has cataloged the print edition as follows:
Names: Osho, 1931–1990, author.
Title: Trust: living spontaneously and embracing life / Osho.
Description: First [edition].|New York: St. Martin’s Griffin, 2017.|Series: Insights for a new
way of living; 11
Identifiers: LCCN 2017000301|ISBN 9781250110466 (trade pbk.)|ISBN 9781250110473 (e-
book)
Subjects: LCSH: Trust—Religious aspects—Rajneesh Foundation.
Classification: LCC BP605.R34 T79 2017|DDC 299/.93—dc23
LC record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2017000301
e-ISBN 9781250110473
Our e-books may be purchased in bulk for promotional, educational, or business use. Please contact
the Macmillan Corporate and Premium Sales Department at 1-800-221-7945, extension 5442, or by
e-mail at MacmillanSpecialMarkets@macmillan.com.
First Edition: May 2017

Contents
Title Page
Copyright Notice
Introduction
Prologue
What Is Trust?
First, Trust in Yourself
Doubt Is Your Friend
Faith Is Given, Trust Is a Growth
Trust Cannot Be Cultivated
Worthy and Unworthy
Blessed Are the Fools
A Quality, Not a Relationship
Beware of Knowledge
To Live Without Belief Is a Great Daring
Insecure and Uninsured
There’s a Fire in the Kitchen!
Security Is the Greatest Illusion
Learn the Art of Nondoing
Don’t Ask for Consolations
Tether Your Camel First